 IN THE COURT OF THE CHIEF JUDICIAL MAGISTRATE
‘THIRUVANANTHAPUI
Present:
SUJAK.M
CHIEF JUDICIAL MAGISTRATE, THIRUVANANTHAPURAM

Friday, the 28th day of February, 2025
M.C. No.132/2025

Petitioner ‘The Kerala State Co-operative Bank Ltd, Thiravananthapuram, the
Authorized Officer / Area Manager.
(By Adv.Smt.Vijila V.V)

Respondent Sajithkumar K S, aged 61 years, S/o Krishnankutty, Janathalayam,
‘Vazhamuttom, Pachaloor P.O, Thiruvananthapuram.

ORDER

This petition was filed under section 14 of the Securitization and
Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest
Act, 2002 (hereinafter referred to as “Act”) for taking possession of the
secured asset which is the scheduled property.

2. The petitioner is a co-operative institution governed by the
provisions of the Kerala Co-operative Societies Act, 1969 and the rules
framed thereunder and functioning as per the Banking Regulations Act
1949. It is represented by its authorized officer. The petitioner is the
secured creditor and the respondent is the secured debtor. The respondent
created a security interest by virtue of a security agreement in respect of
the scheduled property ie., the secured asset in favour of the petitioner in
respect of the financial assistance that she availed from the petitioner. The
respondent committed default in repaying the loan. Therefore the account
was classified as Non Performing Asset. So, the petitioner issued a demand
notice dated 06/01/2024 u/s.13(2) of the Act to the respondent calling
 upon to repay the loan amount in full within 60 days. The notice was served
on the respondent. Even after the notice u/s.13(2) of the Act, he did not pay
the loan amount within the statutory period. So, the petitioner filed this
petition for taking possession of the secured asset for realization of the
amount due to the petitioner's bank.

3. The authorized Officer of the petitioner filed affidavit in
compliance of Sec.14 of the Act. The affidavit and the documents
produced by the petitioner show that the respondent created a security
interest in respect of the secured asset in favour of the petitioner at the
time of availing loan from the petitioner and failed to repay the amount
even after the receipt of the statutory notice u/s.13(2) of the Act. Hence I
find that the petitioner is entitled for possession of the secured asset which
is the scheduled property through the proceedings of this court.

In the result, the petition is allowed as follows:-

i, Advocate Ragesh.R (K/1492/23) is appointed as the commissioner to
take possession of the scheduled property with due notice to the
respondents and hand it over to the petitioner on proper
acknowledgment. The petitioner shall pay a batta of Rs.5500/- to the
commissioner within 15 days from today and and pay Rs.1500/- on
filing report by the commissioner.

ii, The petitioner shall provide a copy of the petition including the
schedule of secured asset to the advocate commissioner for executing
the order.

ili, The Station House Officer the Vizhinjam Police Station shall give
necessary assistance to the commissioner if so required for executing the
order.

iv. The Advocate commissioner is permitted to break open the premises if

required so.
 3

v. The commissioner is directed to prepare an inventory in triplicate to
be attested by two respectable witnesses as regards the execution of
this order and in taking possession of the scheduled property and
copies thereof shall be given to the petitioner as well as the
respondent on proper acknowledgment. The remaining one copy
shall be filed along with the commissioner's report before the court.

vi, The commissioner shall execute the order within 60 days from the
date of payment of first part of the batta as directed in clause (i).

(ictated to the Confidential Assistant, transcribed and typed by her, corrected and
pronounced by me in open court on this the 28th day of February, 2025)

CHIEF JUDICIAL MAGISTRATE
‘THIRUVANANTHAPURAM
