 ‘THE COURT OF THE JUDICIAL MAGISTRATE OF THE FIRST CLASS-I

‘THIRUVANANTHAPURAM
Present: Smt. Karthika $ Varma, Judicial I Class Magistrate-I,

‘Thirwvananthapuram

Monday, the 30" day of December, 2024

Calendar Case No. 74/2022

(Sreekaryam Police Station Crime No. 1858/21)

Complainant

State represented by the Sub Inspector,
Sreekaryam Police station in’ Crime
No.1858/21
(By Dr. KC Ranjana, Learned Assistant Public
Prosecutor)

‘Accused

‘Al: Sajith, aged 33 years, S/o Sadanandhan,
resident of SJ Bhavan, Near Radio station,
Sreekaryam ward, Pangappara

A2: Santhosh Kumar, aged 50 years, S/o.
Krishnan, resident of Athira Bhavan, Near
Ptuthiyidam radio station, Sreekaryam ward,
Pangappara village

(By Adv.Sheena LK)

[Offence

Under Sections 294(b), 323 r/w 34 of the IPC]

Plea

Not guilty.

Finding

Not guilty.

‘Sentence

‘Accused are acquitted of the offences punishable
under 294(b), 323 rhw 34 of the IPC under
Section 278(1) of the BNSS. Their bail bonds
stand cancelled and they are set at liberty.

Description of the Accused

Name

ATSajth

Fathers Name — [Occupation | ~ Residence [Age
Sedanandhan : Pangappara | — 33

nthosh Kamar

Krishnan = Pangappara—| 50

Dates of

 Nemee|approbeast conmence|
on fonor | Releaseon | Commence | | Sentence or
Occurrence sappearanc | bal We ‘Onter
Complaint | ral

Toan202% | 20.11.2021 | 2407.24 | 24,072024 | 809.2024 | 27.12.2024 | 30.12.2028

‘This case having been finally heard by on 27.12.2024 and this Court on
the 30.12.2024 delivered the following: -
JUDGMENT

This is a case instituted upon the Final Report filed by the Sub Inspector
of Police, Sreekaryam Police Station in Crime No. 1858/2021 under Sections
294(b), 323 read with 34 of the of the Indian Penal Code,1860 (hereinafter
referred to as ‘the IPC’).

2. ‘The Prosecution allegation in brief is as follows; On 19.112021 at 08.30
pm on the road near the house of SJ Bhavan, Manvila, the Accused persons, in
furtherance of their common intention slapped on the face of the Informant and
uttered obscene words to her, due to the animosity in her son having thrown the
bucket kept by the 3" Accused for collecting the rain water. When the elder
son of the Informant came seeing this, he was hit on his back by the 1" Accused
hit and the younger son was hit by the 2“ Accused and showered with obscene
words. Thereby the Accused persons are alleged to have committed the above-
‘mentioned offences.

3. ‘The cognizance was taken on the basis of Final Report in respect of the
offences punishable under Sections 294(b), 323 and 34 of the of the IPC. On
issuance of process, the Accused persons entered appearance. They were
enlarged on bail. They were represented by a Counsel of their own choice.
Copies of all relevant Prosecution records were furnished to them. After
hearing both parties and on perusing relevant records, particulars of offences
were read over and explained to them, to which they pleaded not guilty and
‘claimed to be tried.
 3

4, From the side of Prosecution CW1 was examined as PWiand Exhibit P1
was marked. The Learned Assistant Public Prosecutor gave up the remaining
witnesses as the material witness herself had turned hostile to the Prosecution
‘and Prosecution evidence was closed. Since no incriminating circumstances
‘arose against the Accused persons from the deposition of the witness, his
‘examination under Section 351(1)(b) of the Bharatiya Nagarik Suraksha Sanhita
(hereinafter referred as the ‘BNSS') was dispensed with. No evidence was
adduced from the side of the Defence.

5. Heard both sides and perused the documents. The following points arise
for consideration,

(a) Have the Accused persons in furtherance of their common
intention uttered obscene words to PW1 and thereby committed offence
punishable under Section 294(b) r/w 34 of the IPC as alleged?

(b) Have the Accused persons in furtherance of their common
intention voluntarily caused hurt to PWI and thereby committed the
offence punishable under section 323 of the IPC as alleged.

(©) Ifo, what shall be the proper sentence to be awarded?

6. Points (a) and (b): These points are considered together for the sake of
brevity and for avoiding repetition.

PWI deposed that she did not sustain any injury in the incident. The
incident occurred about two years back on the road near her house and only
oral argument had taken place. PW denied having statement to police to the
‘effect that Accused persons assaulted her and uttered obscene words to her,
She deposed that she is unable to identify the person with whom the alleged
arguments ensued.

The remaining witnesses were given up by the Prosecution as the
‘material witness herself turned hostile to the Prosecution and their examination
would only remain a futile exercise. I have carefully considered the evidence
adduced by the Prosecution and the materials on record. It is pertinent to note
 that PW1, the injured herself is having no complaint or allegations that the
Accused persons had assaulted her or uttered obscene words to her. She in fact
deposed that she has no such complaints against the Accused,

(On perusal of the evidence led by the Prosecution and the materials on
record, it is clear from the testimony of PW1 that there is no evidence to
support the Prosecution case. None of the ingredients of the alleged offences
are made out from the evidence adduced. ‘There is nothing available on record
to implicate the Accused to the above incident, Furthermore, PW1, when
‘questioned by the Learned APP admitted the case to have settled between the
parties and compromise petition having been filed. The Compromise Petition,
CM.P. 3663/2024 was dismissed for the reason of involvement of non-
compoundable offence. Hence, on a total consideration of facts and
circumstances of the above case and on appreciation of the evidence adduced,
this Court finds that the Prosecution has failed to prove the case against the
Accused persons and therefore, Points (a) to (e) are found in favour of the
Accused persons.

8. Point (c): In wake of analysis and finding on the forgoing points, this,
point does not arise for consideration.

In the result, 1* and 2" Accused are found not guilty of having
committed the offences punishable under Sections 294(b), 323 and 34 of the
IPC. They are acquitted of the aforesaid offences under Section 278(1) of the
BNSS. Their bail bonds stand cancelled and they are set at liberty.

(Dictated to the Confidential Assistant, transcribed and typed by her, corrected
by me and pronounced in open Court on this, the 30% day of December, 2024.)

Judicial Magistrate of First Class -I,
‘Thiruvananthapuram

 ‘A: Prosecution witness

Rank

Pwi

1B: Defence witness

APPENDIX

'§ Sasikumari(CW1)
examined on 26-11-21

‘Whether Eye witness,
Police witness, Expert
witness, Medical

witness, Other witness

Injured witness

Rank Name ‘Whether Eye witness,
Police witness, Expert
witness, Medical
witness, Other witness

Nil Nil Nil

C: Court witness

Rank Name Whether Eye witness,
Police witness, Expert
witness, Medical
witness, Other witness.

Nil Nil Nil

List of Prosecution/Defence/Court Exhibits
A. Prosecution Exhibits
SL.No Exhibit Description

Number

1 PIPWi

FIS dated 20-11-21
 SL.No | Exhibit No.

Nil Nil

SL.No | Exhibit No.

Nil Nil

B, Defence Exhibits
Description

Nil

C. Court Exhibits
Description

Nil

D. Material Objects

SL.No | Exhibit No.

Nil Nil

Description

Nil

Judicial First Class Magi

‘Thirwvananthapuram,

 