 IN THE COURT OF THE CHIEF JUDICIAL MAGISTRATE,
‘THIRUVANANTHAPUI
Present:
SUJAK.M
CHIEF JUDICIAL MAGISTRATE, THIRUVANANTHAPURAM

riday, the 28" day of February, 2025
MLC. No.80/2025

Petitioner The Kerala State Co-operative Bank Ltd., _(Erstwhile
Thiruvananthapuram District Co-operative Bank Ltd) Regional Office,
Thiruvananthapuram having branch offices at various place including
Neyyattinkara Main Branch, Thiruvananthapuram, represented by
their Authorized Officer Bena S D/o Sasidharan.G aged 54,
Authorized Officer, Kerala State Co-operative Bank Ltd.

(By Adv.Sri.Thottam S Rajeev)

Respondents 1 Shanthakumari, (Legal heir of Late Gopalakrishnan Nair),
W/o.Gopalakrishnan Nair, aged 66 years, Vittu Chattuparampil
House, Perumbavoor, Perumbavoor P.O, Ernakulam,
2 Aswathy G S, (Legal heir of Late Gopalakrishnan Nait). D/o.
Gopalakrishnan Nair, aged 37 years, Vittu Chattuparampil House,
Perumbavoor, Perumbavoor P.O, Emakulam.
3 Nandakumar G S, (Legal heir of Late Gopalakrishnan Nair) S/o,
Gopalakrishnan Nair, aged 35 years, SN Electircals, Akshay‘
Complex, Neyyattinkara P.O, Thiruvananthapuram.

ORDER

This petition was filed under section 14 of the Securitization and
Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest
‘Act, 2002 (hereinafter referred to as “Act”) for taking possession of the
secured asset which is the scheduled property.

2. The petitioner is a Co-operative bank registered with the
Reserve Bank of India. It is represented by its authorized officer. The
petitioner is the secured creditor and the respondents are the secured

debtors. One Gopalakrishanan Nair created a security interest by virtue of
 ‘a security agreement in respect of the scheduled property ie., the secured
asset in favour of the petitioner in respect of the financial assistance that he
availed from the petitioner. Gopalakrishanan Nair died subsequently. His
legal heirs are the respondents. They committed default in repaying the
loan. Therefore the account was classified as Non Performing Asset. On
05/04/2024, the petitioner issued a demand notice u/s.13(2) of the Act to
the respondents calling upon them to repay the loan amount in full within
60 days. ‘The notice was served on the respondents. Even after the issuance
of demand notice u/s.13(2) of the Act, the respondents did not repay the
loan amount within the statutory period. So, the petitioner filed this petition
for taking possession of the secured asset for realization of the amount due
to the petitioner's bank.

3. The authorized Officer of the petitioner filed affidavit in
compliance of Sec.14 of the Act. The affidavit and the documents
produced by the petitioner show that one Gopalakrishanan Nair created a
security interest by virtue of a security agreement in respect of the scheduled
property ie., the secured asset in favour of the petitioner in respect of the
financial assistance that he availed from the petitioner. Gopalakrishanan
Nair died subsequently. His legal heirs are the respondents. ‘They failed to
repay the amount even after the receipt of the statutory notice u/s.13(2)
of the Act. Hence I find that the petitioner is entitled for possession of the
secured asset which is the scheduled property through the proceedings of
this court.

In the result, the petition is allowed as follows:-
1. Advocate Prem Das (K/663/2022) is appointed as the
commissioner to take possession of the scheduled property with due
notice to the respondents and hand it over to the petitioner on proper

acknowledgment. The petitioner shall pay a batta of Rs.5500/- to the
 3

commissioner within 15 days from today and and pay Rs.1500/- on
filing report by the commissioner.

2. The petitioner shall provide a copy of the petition including
the schedule of secured asset to the advocate commissioner for
executing the order.

3. The Station House Officer of the Police Station in the area
in which the secured assets situated, shall give necessary assistance to
the commissioner if so required for executing the order.

4, The Advocate commissioner is permitted to break open the
premises if required so.

5. The commissioner is directed to prepare an inventory in
triplicate to be attested by two respectable witnesses as regards the
execution of this order and in taking possession of the scheduled
property and copies thereof shall be given to the petitioner as well
as the respondents on proper acknowledgment. The remaining one
copy shall be filed along with the commissioner's report before the
court.

6. The commissioner shall execute the order within 60 days
from the date of payment of first part of the batta as directed in
dlause (i).

@ictated to the Confidential Assistant, transcribed and typed by her, corrected and
pronounced by me in open court on this the 28th day of February, 2025)

CHIEF JUDICIAL MAGISTRATE
‘THIRUVANANTHAPURAM
