 IN THE COURT OF THE JUDICIAL I CLASS MAGISTRATE-I,
THIRUVANANTHAPURAM

Present: - Smt. Karthika S Varma, Judicial I Class Magistrate-I,
‘Thiruvananthapuram

Dated this the 18" day of December 2024
C.P. No, 26/2024

Complainant: State-Represented by the Sub Inspector of Police,
Karamana Police Station in Crime No. 532/2019
(By Dr-Renjana K C Assistant Public Prosecutor)
Accused : Pavis, S/o. Palani, resident of TC 23/1096, Avittam
veetilValiyasala ward, Thycadu village from Sreeramajaya
Nivas, H. No.4/292, Vadasseri Mele Putheri North Street,
Nagarkovil, Kanyakumari District, Tamil Nadu
(By Advocate Shri. Konchira G Neelakantan Nair)

Offences : U/Ss. 363 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860,S.86(1) of JJ Act

Finding/Order : The Case against the Accused is committed under Section
362 BNSS to Hon'ble Principal District & Sessions Court,
Thiruvananthapuram for trial.

This case having come up for consideration before this Court on
18.12.2024 and this Court on the same day passed the following: -
ORDER

1. This is a case wherein Charge Sheet was filed by the Sub Inspector of
Police, Karamana Police Station in Crime No, 532/2019 against the accused
alleging commission of offences punishable under Section 363 of the Indian
Penal Code (hereinafter referred to as the ‘IPC’).

2. The prosecution case is brief as follows: The Accused with intent to kidnap
 CW2, the minor daughter of CW1, on 12.03.2019 at 10.00 am without the
consent of her parents, kidnapped her from her lawful guardianship, initially to
Thampanoor and from there to various places at Tamil Nadu . Thereby Accused
is alleged to have committed the above-mentioned offence.

2. The case was originally taken on file as C.C. No. 740/19 and cognizance
was taken in respect of the said offence. Thereafter, process was issued to the
Accused. On his appearance, copies of relevant Prosecution records were
furnished to him and he was enlarged on bail. After hearing both parties and on
perusing relevant records, charge was framed for offences under Sections 363 of
the Indian Penal Code, 1860. It was read over and explained to him, to which he
pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.

3. Thereafter, pursuant to the examination of CW1, it was brought to the
notice of this Court that CW2, the victim herein was a minor as on the date of
occurrence. Hence, Clarification was sought from the Learned APP and the
Learned Counsel for the Accused as to the competency of this Court to try the
above offences as the same involved violation of child rights. Subsequently the
Learned APP also pointed out that the settled position in the light of Section
86(1) of the Juvenile Justice ( Care and Protection of Children) Act, 2015 read in
consonance with Section 25 of the Commission for Protection of Child Rights Act
is that in cases involving violation of child rights, this Court is not competent to
conduct the trial and the Court competent to try the same is the Hon'ble
Children’s Court, Thus, on satisfaction of the above submission and legal
position, the said case was refiled as C.P. No. 26/2024 for the purpose of
‘committing the above case to the Hon'ble Children's Court for trial.

4. In the light of the above circumstances, this case is committed under
Section 362 of the Bhartiya Nagarik Suraksha Sanhitha (hereinafter referred to
as the ‘BNSS') to the Hon‘ble Principal District and Sessions Court,
Thiruvananthapuram for trial.

5. The Accused Persons shall appear before the Hon’ble Principal District and
Sessions Court, Thiruvananthapuram as and when required. The entire case
records including the documents and material objects, if any, shall be forwarded
to the Hon'ble Court aforesaid at the earliest.

 6. The Learned APP shall be notified as to the committal of the above case
and the office is directed to retain copies of all relevant records prior to the same
being sent to the Hon‘ble Court.

(Dictated to the Confidential Assistant, transcribed and typed by her, corrected
and pronounced by me in open Court on this the 18" day of December, 2024)

sa/-
Judicial I Class Magistrate-I,
‘Thiruvananthapuram

True Copy
Judicial I Class Magistrate-t,

‘Thirvananthapuram
 IN THE COURT OF THE JUDICIAL I CLASS MAGISTRATE-1,
THIRUVANANTHAPURAM

Present: - Smt. Karthika S Varma, Judicial I Class Magistrate-I,
Thirwvananthapuram

Dated this the 18" day of December 2024

C.C. No. 740/2019

Complainant: State-Represented by the Sub Inspector of Police,
Karamana Police Station in Crime No. 532/2019.
(By Dr-Renjana K C,Assistant Public Prosecutor)
Accused Pavis, S/o. Palani, resident of TC 23/1096, Avittam
veetilValiyasala ward, Thycadu village from Sreeramajaya
Nivas, H. No.4/292, Vadasseri Mele Putheri North Street,
Nagarkovil, Kanyakumari District, Tamil Nadu
(By Advocate Shri. Konchira G Neelakantan Nair)

Offences : Under Section 363 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860

Finding/Order : The above case is refiled as CP 26/2024 for the purpose of
committing the above case to the Hon‘ble Children's Court,
for trial,

This case having come up for consideration before this Court on 02.12.2024 and
this Court on the same day passed the following: -
ORDER

1, This is a case wherein Charge Sheet was filed by the Sub Inspector of
Police, Karamana Police Station in Crime No, 532/2019 against the accused
alleging commission of offences punishable under Section 363 of the Indian
Penal Code (hereinafter referred to as the ‘IPC’).

2. The prosecution case is brief as follows: The Accused with intent to kidnap
CW2, the minor daughter of CW1, on 12.03.2019 at 10.00 am without the
consent of her parents, kidnapped her from her lawful guardianship, initially to
‘Thampanoor and from there to various places at Tamil Nadu . Thereby Accused
 is alleged to have committed the above-mentioned offence.

3. The cognizance was taken in respect of the said offence. Thereafter,
process was issued to the Accused. On his appearance, copies of relevant
Prosecution records were furnished to him and he was enlarged on bail. After
hearing both parties and on perusing relevant records, charge was framed for
offences under Sections 363 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860. It was read over
and explained to him, to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.

4. Thereafter, pursuant to the examination of CW1, it was brought to the
notice of this Court that CW2, the victim herein was a minor as on the date of
occurrence. Hence, Clarification was sought from the Learned APP and the
Learned Counsel for the Accused as to the competency of this Court to try the
above offences as the same involved violation of child rights. Subsequently the
Learned APP also pointed out that the settled position in the light of Section
86(1) of the JJ Act read in consonance with Section 25 of the Commission for
Protection of Child Rights Act is that in cases involving violation of child rights,
this Court is not competent to conduct the trial and the Court competent to try
the same is the Hon’ble Children’s Court, i.e., the Hon'ble Principal District &
Sessions Court, Thiruvanathapuram,

5. On careful consideration of the facts of this case and the submissions made
by the Learned APP and the Learned Counsel for the Accused, this Court is
satisfied that since the injured in the above crime was only a minor as on the
date of occurrence, the Court competent to try the same is the Hon’ble
Children’s Court. Hence, the above case is refiled as CP 26/2024 for the purpose
of committing the above case to the Hon'ble Children’s Court for trial.

(Dictated to the Confidential Assistant, transcribed and typed by her, corrected
and pronounced by me in open Court on this the 02" day of December, 2024)

Judicial I Class Magistrate-I,
‘ThiruvananthapuraM.
