 IN THE COURT OF THE CHIEF JUDICIAL MAGISTRATE,
THIRUVANANTHAPURAM
Present:
SUJAKM

CHIEF JUDICIAL MAGISTRATE, THIRUVANANTHAPURAM

Wednesday, the 05th day of March, 2025 _
M.C. No.270/2025

Petitioner Nedumangad Co-operative Urban Bank Ltd. No.3193,

represented by the Authorized Officer, Nedumangad PO,
Thiruvananthapuram 695 541
(By Adv.Sri.G.Ramachandran Nair )

Respondents 1 Sarada Amma, aged 71, W/o Naryana Pilla, Residing at

Kailas (Shibu Bhavan) Valiyara, Vellanad_ P.O,
Nedumangad 695543

2° Sivakumar N.S aged 47 S/o Narayana Pilla, Residing at
Kailas (Shibu Bhavan) Valiyara, Vellanad_ P.O,
Nedumangad 695543

ORDER

‘This petition was filed under section 14 of the Securitization
and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security
Interest Act, 2002 (hereinafter referred to as “Act”) for taking
possession of the secured asset which is the scheduled property.

2. The petitioner is a bank. It is represented by its
authorized officer. The petitioner is the secured creditor and the
respondents are the secured debtors, The respondents created a

security interest by virtue of a security agreement in respect of the

scheduled property ie., the secured asset in favour of the petitioner in

respect of the financial assistance that they availed from the petitioner.
The respondents committed default in repaying the loan. Therefore
the account was classified as Non Performing Asset on 03/04/2023.
 On 27/03/2024, the petitioner issued a demand notice ws.13(2) of the
Act to the respondents calling upon them to repay the loan amount in
full within 60 days. ‘The notice was served on the respondents. Even
after the notice w/s.13(2) of the Act, they did not pay the loan amount
within the statutory period. So, the petitioner filed this petition for
taking possession of the secured asset for realization of the amount due
to the petitioner's bank,

3. The authorized Officer of the petitioner filed affidavit in
compliance of Sec.14 of the Act. The affidavit and the documents
produced by the petitioner show that the respondents have created a
security interest in respect of the secured asset in favour of the
petitioner at the time of availing loan from the petitioner and they
failed to repay the amount even after the receipt of statutory notice
1w/s.13(2) of the Act. Hence I find that the petitioner is entitled for
possession of the secured asset which is the scheduled property
through the proceedings of this court.

In the result, the petition is allowed as follows:-

i, Advocate Simi V.Tharakan (K/2452/2022) is appointed as
the commissioner to take possession of the scheduled property with due
notice to the respondents and hand it over to the petitioner on proper
acknowledgment. The petitioner shall pay a batta of Rs.5500/- to the
commissioner within 15 days from today and and pay Rs.1500/- on filing
report by the commissioner.

ii, The petitioner shall provide a copy of the petition including
the schedule of secured asset to the advocate commissioner for executing
the order.

fii, The Station House Officer, Police Station concerned shall
give necessary assistance to the commissioner if so required for

executing the order.
 iv. The Advocate commissioner is permitted to break open the
premises if required so.

v. The commissioner is directed to prepare an inventory in
triplicate to be attested by two respectable witnesses as regards the
execution of this order and in taking possession of the scheduled
property and copies thereof shall be given to the petitioner as well as
the respondents on proper acknowledgment. The remaining one copy
shall be filed along with the commissioner's report before the court.

vi. The commissioner shall execute the order within 60 days
from the date of payment of first part of the batta as directed in
clause (i).

@ictated to the Confidential Assistant, ranscribed and typed by her, corrected and
pronounced by me in open court on this the 05th day of March, 2025)

CHIEF JUDICIAL MAGISTRATE,
THIRUVANANTHAPURAM
