 IN THE COURT OF THE CHIEF JUDICIAL MAGISTRATE
THIRUVANANTHAPURAM

Present:
SUJAK.M
CHIEF JUDICIAL MAGISTRATE, THIRUVANANTHAPURAM

‘Wednesday, the 05th day of March 2025
MAC. _No.391/2025

Petitioner IndusInd Bank Limited, Regional Office, First Floor, Jain
Towers, 2, Varapuzha Road, near Railway bridge, Edapally,
Ernakulam and branch Office at TC 9/1014(9), First Floor,
Shivashakthi Towers, Sasthamangalam PO,
Thiruvananthapuram 695010, represented by its Authorized
Officer, the Chief Manager (Legal) Mr.Bisin K.S.
(By Adv.Smt.Arshambika.M)

Respondents 1 Lawrence Ajith, aged 45 years, S/o, Arasu Nadar, 1557,
Cherupushpa Vilas, Manvila, Kulathoor PO, Trivandrum
695583,

2 Aloysius Shaji A, aged 47 years, S/o. Arasu Nadar,
04/1557,Cherupushpa Vilas, Manvila, Kulathoor P.O,
‘Trivandrum 695583,

ORDER

This petition was filed under section 14 of the Securitization and
Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest
Act, 2002 (hereinafter referred to as “Act”) for taking possession of the
secured asset.

2. The petitioner is a banking company registered under the
Companies Act 1956. The petitioner is the secured creditor and the
respondents are the secured debtors. The respondents created a security
interest in respect of the scheduled property ie., the motor vehicle bearing
Registration No.KL-22-Q-6019 (the secured asset) in favour of the
petitioner in respect of the loan that they availed from the petitioner. The
respondents committed default in repaying the loan. Therefore the account
 was classified as Non Performing Asset on 14/10/24. On 14/10/2024, the
petitioner issued a demand notice u/s.13(2) of the Act to the respondents
calling upon them to repay the loan amount within 60 days. The notice was
not served on the respondent. So the petitioner published a copy of the notice
in two daily news papers. Even after the receipt of the statutory notice
‘w/s.13(2) of the Act, they did not repay the loan amount within the statutory
period. So, the petitioner sought for taking possession of the secured asset
for realization of the amount that due to the petitioner's bank.

3. The authorized Officer of the Petitioner-Bank filed affidavit in
compliance of Sec.14 of the Act. The affidavit and the documents produced
by the petitioner show that the respondents created security interest in
respect of the secured asset in favour of the petitioner at the time of availing
loan and they failed to repay the amount even after the receipt of the
statutory notice ws.13(2) of the Act. Hence I find that the petitioner is
entitled for the possession of the secured asset ie., the scheduled property
through the proceedings of this court,

In the result, the petition is allowed as follows

i, Advocate Soju G.S (IK/2480/2022) is appointed as the commissioner to

take possession of the scheduled property ie., the motor vehicle bearing

Registration No. No.KL-22-Q-6019 and to hand it over to the petitioner

‘on proper acknowledgment. The petitioner shall pay a batta of Rs.2000/-

to the commissioner within 15 days from today and to pay Rs.5000/- on

filing report by the commissioner.

ii, ‘The petitioner shall provide a copy of the petition including the schedule
of secured asset to the advocate commissioner for executing the order.

. The St

asset found, shall give necessary assistance to the commissioner if so

House Officer of the Police Station in which the secured

required.
 3

iv. The commissioner is directed to prepare an inventory in triplicate to
be attested by two respectable witnesses as regards the execution of
this order and taking possession of the scheduled property. Copies
thereof shall be given to the petitioner as well as the Ist respondent
‘on proper acknowledgment. The remaining one copy shall be
produced along with the commissioner's report before the court.

v. The Advocate Commissioner shall execute the order within 60 days
from the date of payment of first part of the batta as directed in clause
@.

ictated to the Confidential Assistant, transcribed and typed by her, corrected
and pronounced by me in open court on this the 05th day of March 2025)

CHIEF JUDICIAL MAGISTRATE,
THIRUVANANTHAPURAM
