 IN THE COURT OF THE JUDICIAL MAGISTRATE OF THE FIRST CLASS-1

‘THIRUVANANTHAPURAM

Present: Smt. Karthika S Varma
Judicial I Class Magistrate-I, Thiruvananthapuram
Friday, the 27" day of December, 2024

CC. No, 537 of 2012
(Crime No. 99 of 2010 of Sreekaryam Police Station)

‘Complainant State represented by the Sub Inspector.
Sreekaryam Police station in
Cr.No.99/2010
(By Dr-Renjana K C, Assistant Public Prosecutor)
Recused Sivankutty Nair, S/o.Madhavan Pillai, resident of
Pangodu veedu, Pullayil, Karyavattom ward,
Pangappara village
(By Adv.V S Bhasurendran Nair)
Offence Under Sections 447, 324, 326 and 427 of the
Indian Penal Code
Plea ‘Not guilty.
Finding Not guilty.
‘Sentence ‘Accused is acquitted of the offences under
Sections 447, 324, 326 and 427 of the Indian
Penal Code His bail bonds stands cancelled and
he is set at liberty,
Description of the Accused
(Oceupati
‘SIN Name Father's Name ‘on Residence _| Age.
1_[—Sivankutty Nair Madhavan Pillai : Pangappar [55
Dates of
‘Occurrence | Report | Apprehensi | Release on | Commence | Close | Sentence
‘on oF bail ‘ment of
cor | appearance trial of or
Complaint trial Order

 2

17.02. 2010] 18.02.2010 | 19.02.2010 | 19.02.2010 l 16.07.2014 l 23.12.2024 l 27.12.2024 ]

This case having been finally heard on 23.12.2024 and this Court on the
27.12.2024 delivered the following: -
JUDGMENT

1. This case arose on the Final Report filed by the Sub Inspector of Police,
Karamana in Crime No. 99/2010 for the offences under sections 447, 324, 326 and

427 of the Indian Penal Code, The sole Accused herein is the brother-inaw of the

Informant’s husband.

2. ‘The Prosecution allegation is that on 17.02.2010 around 05:00 PM in the
house of the Informant at Pangappara; the Accused, due to the animosity towards
Informant and her husband for having rejected his request to return the property
‘they had bought from him few years back; criminally trespassed into her house and
threw brick pieces from his possession repeatedly at the Informant and thereby
she sustained contusion and swelling on her left eye, left elbow, right thumb. When
she tried to escape, the Accused hit her left hand with a shovel handle lying
thereon, thereby resulting in fracture to her bone in the left wrist. She also
sustained loss to the tune of an amount of Rs. 3100/- (Rupees Three Thousand One
Hundred Only) as her left earring was broken and thereby committed the offences
punishable under Sections 447, 324, 326 and 427 of the Indian Penal Code

(hereinafter referred to as the IPC).

3. On the basis of the final report, cognizance was taken in respect of the

offences punishable under the aforesaid Sections. On issuance of process, the
 Accused entered appearance. After preliminary hearing, charge was framed for the
offences under Sections 447, 324, 326 and 427 of the IPC. It was read over and

explained to the Accused to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.

4. From the side of Prosecution, CWs 1, 2, 3, 7 to 9 and an additional witness
(as per Order in C.M.P. No. 3102/2024) were examined as PWs 1 to 7 respectively
‘and Exhibits P1, Pl(a), P2 to P6 were marked. CWS was given up by the Learned
APP on report that his presence cannot be secured as he is bedridden due to old

age. Pursuant to closure of evidence of the Prosecution, the Accused was examined

under Section 313(1)(b) of the CrPC wherein he denied all the incriminating
circumstances adduced against him by the Prosecution. No Defence evidence was

‘adduced by the Accused.
5. Heard both sides. The following points arise for consideration:

(a) Has the Accused voluntarily caused hurt to PW1 by throwing brick pleces on her
nd thereby committed the offence punishable under Section 324 of the IPC?

(by Has the Accused voluntarily caused grievous hurt to PW1 by hitting her with
shovel handle causing fracture to the bone in her left wrist punishable under
Section 326 ofthe IPC?

(6) Has the Accused by criminally trespassed into the house of the Informant and
thereby committed the offences punishable under Sections 447 ofthe IPC?

(@) Has the Accused committed the offence of mischief and thereby committed the

offences punishable under Sections 427 of the IPC?
 4

If so, what shall be the proper sentence to be awarded?

6. Point (a) and (b); These points are considered together for the sake of
brevity and for avoiding repetition.

The injured was examined as PW1 and her FIS marked as Exhibit Pl, To
prove the incident, CWs 2 and 3, the occurrence witnesses were examined as PWS
2 and 3. CW7 examined as PW4 is the Sub Inspector of the Police who had
recorded Exhibit PI statement of the PW1 and Exhibit P2(a) body note and on the
basis of which, registered Exhibit P2 FIR. CW8, examined as PWS is the
Investigating Officer who had prepared Exhibit P3 Scene Mahazar. He seized MOs
MOI and MO2 brick pieces (two in Nos) and MO3 shovel handle respectively,
which were included in Exhibit P4 KPF 151 A Form. He further prepared Exhibit
5, the Address Memo reflecting the details of the Accused and Exhibit P5 is the
report to the effect rectifying the mistake crept in Exhibit P2 FIR that right wrist
bone of PWI got fractured. The Wound Certificate was initially marked as Exhibit
P6 through CW9, examined as PWG who had taken over Investigation from PWS.

Sine

it was reported from the side of Prosecution that the presence of CW6, the
doctor who had examined PW1 could not be procured as his details were
unavailable, the Superintendent, General Hospital Trivandrum was examined as
PW7 for the purpose of proving the Exhibit P6 Wound Certificate as per Order in
CMP. No. 3126/2024. But the same was only identified by him and continued to

remain marked as Exhibit P6.
 6.1, PW1 deposed that the incident occurred on 17.02.2012 at her home at
Karyavattom at about 04:30 - 05:00 PM. She was having food inside her house and
hearing hue and cry from outside, she got out of her house and found the Accused
there and he threw brick piece at her. He also broke and destroyed the utensils
kept outside the house for feeding the cattle. Thereafter he hit her on her left hand
with a shovel handle causing fracture. She called the police. The Accused was not
letting her to go outside and was standing there. The police came and took her to
Medical College wherein she was admitted and her left hand got fractured. She
‘also sustained injuries on her head, eye and leg and she went to the eye hospital
the next day for treatment. She also sustained loss of an amount of Rs. 15,000/-
(Rupees Fifteen Thousand Only) on account of the Accused having broken her
chain weighing one sovereign of gold and also her left earring. She deposed that
the Accused is the brother-indaw of her husband and she got married and resided
in the matrimonial house nearly for five months and where the Accused also lived
‘ith his family. She was told that the house was in the name of her husband, She
‘went to her own house due to the annoyance of the Accused and his family and
returned to the said home only in 1994 when her husband returned from the Gulf
and thereafter due to quarrel, the Accused and his family let from the said home.
‘When the Accused demanded the property to be returned, they refused the same
being the reason to attack her. She deposed that she gave Exhibit Pt Statement to
the police and that she could identify the brick piece and shovel handle with which
she was attacked, Thereafter, she identified the MOI & MO2 brick pieces.
 6

PW2, deposed that PW1 is her sister-in-law. The incident occurred on
17.02.2010 about 05:00 PM at Karyavattom in front of PW1’s house. PW1 was
sitting inside her house along with PW? and PW3, the wife of PW2 and sister of
PW1, and with another lady residing upstairs. The Accused came with a hue and
cry and threw two brick pieces at PW1, due to which she sustained injury on her
left eye, left elbow and right thumb. The Accuse ran and got into the cattle shed
‘and took the shovel handle kept therein and hit PW1 on her left hand causing her
fracture. He took PW1 to the Medical College Hospital. He is aware of the property
dispute between PWI and the Accused and it is on account of the said animosity,
that he had so assaulted her, He identified MOs 1 and 2 as the brick pieces alleged
to have been thrown at PW1 and further identified MO3 shovel handle as the one
that has been allegedly used for hitting PW1.

PW3, is the sister of PW1 and wife of PW2. She deposed that the incident on
17.02.2010 about 05:00 PM in front of PW1's house. She knows the Accused who is
the relative of PW1. She along with PW2 had gone to PW1's house in their car.
PW2 is a driver by profession. They were sitting inside PW1's home. Hearing sound
from outside, they went out and saw the Accused and he threw stone at PW1. It
was a brick and as a result, PWI sustained injury on her left eye, abrasion on her
right-hand little finger. PW1 was hit on her left elbow with a shovel handle which
‘was lying in the cattle shed. PW1 felt pain. Twice the Accused threw brick at PW1.
PW1 was taken to the Medical College and it was informed that she sustained
fracture on her left hand. She deposed that she could identify the brick piece and
 7
‘also the shovel handle. She identified MO 1 as the brick piece, She described that
‘one side of said shovel handle was slightly slanted and one side broken and
{identified MO3 shovel handle as the one that has been allegedly used for hitting
pw

PW4, deposed that, on 18.02.2010, he had recorded Exhibit P1 statement of
the PWI and Exhibit P2(a) body note and on the basis of which, he registered
Exhibit P2 FIR. PWS, the Investigating Officer deposed that he inspected the scene
of occurrence and prepared Exhibit P3 Scene Mahazar. He seized MO1 and MO2
brick pieces (two in Nos) and MO3 shovel handle respectively, in the presence of

PW3 which were included

Exhibit Pa KPF 151 A Form. He further prepared
Exhibit P5, the Address Memo reflecting the details of the Accused and Exhibit PS
fs the report to the effect rectifying the mistake crept in Exhibit P2 FIR that right
wrist bone of PW1 got fractured. He deposed that he could identify the brick piece
‘and also the shovel handle so seized and produced by him. He identified MO1 and
2 as the brick pieces and identified MO3 shovel handle as the one that has been
allegedly used for hitting PW1. PW6, deposed that he had took over Investigation
from PWS on 05.01.2012, produced the Exhibit P6 Wound Certificate before the

Court, completed the Investigation and filed the Final Report before this Court.

PW7, the Superintendent of Medical College Trivandrum, deposed that
Exhibit P6 is the Wound Certificate issued by CWS and the signature therein
belongs to CW6. The paper is that issued from the Medical College. The present
details of CWS are not available as per records in the Medical College. CW6 has
 8
not worked with him and that he doesn't know his handwriting or signature
Howover, the same is seen in the duty register maintained there and further the
duplicate of Exhibit P6 also is available there, He further deposed as to the
contents of Exhibit P6 that PWI was examined on 17.02.2010 at 06:45 PM noting
fracture on the bone on left forearm and further swelling and contusion note in the
said portion, Darkening below the left eyelid also noted. The alleged history of
assault as recorded is to the effect that itis by a known person with stone, namely
shivankutty nair at 05:00 PM. PW7 further deposed that as per his personal

opinion, fracture and swelling can occur if assaulted by a stone.

6.2. ‘The Learned APP points out that as regards the alleged offences, PW1, the
injured herself has categorically deposed in tune with the prosecution case. She
has specifically deposed as to the overt acts committed by the Accused and the
Injuries sustained to her as a result of the said alleged overt acts. Her case is
corroborated and substantiated further by the occurrence witness who are PWs 2
and 3, who have very well witnessed the incident, Exhibit P(1Ma) body note and
further by the medical evidence, that is, Exhibit P6 Wound Certificate. The MOs
have been recovered from the place of occurrence as reflected from Exhibit P3
Scene Mahazar and as per the deposition of PW5, the Investigating Officer and
they have been identified by the witnesses respectively. There is nothing put
forward in the cross-examination of these witnesses so as to discredit their

evidence.
 ‘The Learned Counsel for the Accused, on the other hand, assails the case of
the Prosecution on the following grounds: (i) inconsistency in the deposition of
PW1 pertaining to the alleged incident questioning the believability of the said
‘evidence; (i) occurrence witnesses, PWs 2 and 3 are interested witnesses and their
version as regards the incident and that of PW1 are inconsistent in itself, making
their presence at the scene of occurrence doubtful and questionable; (ii) there is
zo medical evidence in this case as Exhibit P6, Wound Certificate cannot be relied
‘on as the same is not proved, (iv) delay in registration of the FIR is not explained,
(©) there is no proper identification of the MOs. The said anomalies would throw

serious doubt on the case of the Prosecution.

Substantiating the same, the Learned Counsel for the Accused submits that
‘on examination of PW1, she deposed that while she was at her home having food,
she allegedly heard a hue and cry and she went outside her home, at which
Juncture, saw the Accused there to have thrown brick piece at her, wherein
sustained injuries on her head, eye and leg. He hit her on her left hand with a
shovel handle causing fracture. She called the police. The Accused was not letting
her to go outside and was standing there. She has identified MOs 1 and 2 as the
brick pieces by which she got allegedly hit. She has not identified the shovel
handle by which she has allegedly been attacked. The same is seen identified by
PWs 2, 3 and PWS. Coming to the evidence of PWs 2 and 3, the Learned Counsel
for the Accused would argue that they are interested witnesses. The reason being

that during cross-examination of PW1, she categorically deposed that she was
 10
alone in the house when the incident happened and that she doesn’t know if
someone had gathered there, and that the place is less inhabited; which in itself
‘questions the presence of PWs 2 and 3 at the alleged scene of occurrence. The
version of PWs 2 and 3 is that they along with PW1 were sitting inside the house of
PW1 at which instance the alleged incident occurred, they heard the sound and
went outside and saw the Accused to have allegedly attacked PW1. PW2 in fact,
‘went on deposing that CW4 was also with them at the relevant time; which is not
even a case for PW1. PW3 also stated the presence of police in the alleged scene of
‘occurrence on the alleged date and that PW1 was hit twice by brick piece. The
identification of MOs 1, 2 and MO3 by PWs 2 and 3 would in the said backdrop
cannot be relied upon, according to the Accused. Furthermore, the Learned
Counsel for the Accused also points out that Exhibit P3 Scene Mahazar reflected
presence of broken pieces of brick spread nearby the alleged scene of occurrence
‘and the shovel handle with specific description. PWS, when cross-examined
admitted the existence of broken pieces of brick and further that it was PW3 who
had shown him the same and identified the same. Further he admits that Mos
‘were not scientifically examined and that the Mos were in prosecuiton of
Accused at the time of incident as per statement of Pws 1 to 3, The recovery of
alleged weapons by the Investigating Officer is therefore based on the
identification of the alleged weapon of offence is by PW3, who according to PW1
‘was not even there at the scene of occurrence. Hence the same cannot also be
relied upon. During the cross examination, PW1 admitted her relation with PWs2

and 3 to be her brother-inaw and sister and that PW3 was there with her in the
 hospital. The Learned Counsel for the Accused would argue that she deposed in

her examination:

chief that she had called the police and that the police came
there and took her to the hospital. Her allegations in the FIS however, shows that
she was taken to the hospital by PWs 2 and 3, which is also the case of PWs 2 and
3 and when questioned to by the Accused in cross, she admitted the same to have
been stated in her previous statement, which in fact is not true. She further
deposed in her cross-examination that she met the doctor and PWs 2, 3 and CW4
‘were the ones with her. Thus, the statements of the witnesses are inconsistent in
itself as well as with each other on material facts of corroboration. All these would
highly tilt to the fact that PWs 2 and 3, the alleged occurrence witnesses are in fact
only interested witnesses as the natural possibilty oftheir presence at the scene of

occurrence itself is made questionable and doubtful

‘There is @ delay of one day in registration of the crime, PW1 deposed that
the police were very well present in the scene of occurrence and had in fact taken
her to the hospital. PW3 also affirmed the presence of police officials. There is no
‘ase that the police received any intimation from the hospital. The reason for the
delay is not explained in the FIR and as per PW4 and PWS, there is no delay in

registering the crime.

As regards the medical evidence, Exhibit P6 and deposition of PW7, the
Learned Counsel for the Accused points out that the same cannot be relied upon,
‘as the same has not been proved and therefore not admissible in evidence and

relied on Kochu v. State of Kerala, 1978 KHC 321. PW7 is neither the doctor
 2
‘who had allegedly examined PW1 nor is he acquainted with the handwriting or
signature of the CW6, who had in fact examined her. Even otherwise, if Exhibit P6
4s taken into account, the Learned Counsel points out that the alleged history of
‘assault is by means of ‘stone’ alone and the person who is stated to have brought
the patient is her husband Mr. Manoharan Nair. Thus, the shovel handle is
nowhere in the picture. Nor is her husband. PW1 herself has no case that her
+husband was with her and according to her PWs 2, 3 and CW4 was with her. PWs 2
‘and 3 also deposed to the effect that they had taken them to the hospital. He
further points put that there is no consistency for PW1 as regards the injuries
sustained. In the dock, the injuries stated to have been sustained by her is on her
head, eye and leg. She has no case that the fracture to her left wrist bone was
caused by means of MOs 1 and 2. MO3 is not identified by her and the
identification of MO3 by PWs2 and 3 cannot be relied upon. Further PW1 has no
‘case that MOs 1 and 2 were thrown at her repeatedly. She has no case that she felt:
‘any pain, bodily disease or infirmity as a result of the alleged act, The wound
certificate is not proved. Hence the ingredients of the offences under Sections 324
and 326 is not made out in the present case and the Prosecution could not

substantiate its case beyond reasonable doubt.

Per contra, the Learned APP points out that only those discrepancies in the
evidence of the witnesses that are so materially incompatible with the credibility of
their version, that would make their evidence not believable and not otherwise.

Merely for the reason that PWs 2 and 3 were her close relatives would not make
 13
them interested witnesses, unless there is any cogent evidence, their evidence
need not be discarded. The general opinion given by PW7 that fracture and
swelling can occur if assaulted by a stone can be taken into consideration. The
delay of one day is not fatal to the case of Prosecution, as the cause for the delay in
‘connection with the facts and circumstances of this case is not attributable to any
effort to concoct a version. This is so, even if, for arguments’ sake it is accepted
‘that the police were available at the place of occurrence as the injured was taken
to the hospital and she was admitted there. The statement of the injured witness is
of a high evidentiary value and her version cannot be discarded lightly unless there
exist compelling circumstances and the injured witness in this case has clearly and
categorically deposed as to the overt act, identified the Accused and injuries
sustained by her. The Learned APP relies on Chandrapurath Rajeevan, S/o
Achuthan v. State of Kerala, 2024 (2) KLD 110; Kurian v. State, 2019 (4)

KLJ 903 to substantiate her contentions,

6.3. ‘This Court has carefully gone through the materials on record and
considered the contentions placed by the Learned APP and the Learned Counsel
for the Accused. It is settled that for a successful prosecution on the ground of
infliction of hurt and grievous hurt, under Sections 324 and 326 IPC, the
prosecution must have a definite case that the alleged hurt and grievous hurt was
caused or inflicted by various means as provided in the said Sections. In the case
‘at hand, the Prosecution allegation is that by means of MOs 1 and 2 (brick piece),

the Accused voluntary caused hurt to PW1 causing her to sustain swelling and
 4

contusion on her left eye, left elbow, right thumb; and further that by means of
shovel handle, the Accused voluntarily caused grievous hurt to her resulting in her

left wrist bone fractured.

On appreciation of the evidence of Prosecution Witnesses, this Court finds
considerable force in the argument of the Learned Counsel for the Accused as
regards believability of the evidence of PWs 2 and 3. It is true as rightly pointed
‘out by the Learned APP that merely for the reason that they are close relatives of
PWI, their evidence cannot be discarded, However, it is pertinent to note that in
the present case PW1 herself has got no case that they were present at the time of
the alleged incident, The statement made by her during her cross-examination that
she alone was present in her house at the time of the alleged incident by necessary
{implication rules out the possibility of presence of the PWs 2 and 3 therein and the
same cuts to the root of the very basis of the version of PWs 2 and 3 as regards
their presence in the house of PW1 and thereby to have witnessed the alleged
incident, further leading to the identification of MOs in this case as well. The
admission of PW1 as to her presence alone, definitely is a material circumstance,
leading inference as to the interestedness of the occurrence witness, ruling out the
possibility of their presence naturally and consequentially questioning the

believability of their depositions.

Coming to the evidence of PW1, it is true that there is inconsistency in her
deposition as regards the presence of police officials and the fact of her having
been taken to the hospital by the police, while she admits in her cross-examination
 15
that PWs 2, 9 and CWA were with her in the hospital. Its on the said premise that
the question of delay in registering the crime was raised. More delay in all
circumstances would not be fatal to the Prosecution, The cause of delay that could
be gathered from the materials on record is that she was taken to the hospital,
admitted therein and on the very next day she gave Exhibit PI Statement. True
that the Wound Certificate is challenged, even then, it cannot amount to delay so
fatal to the case of prosecution. Further, the inconsistency as regards the presence
of the police officials cannot be relied on as though question was put as to PW1L
during her cross-examination whether the same was stated in her previous
statement to which she answered in the affirmative; but no opportunity granted to
‘explain as to why the same is not seen reflected in her previous statement, Hence,
this Court is unable to accept the contention of the Leamed Counsel for the

‘Accused in the said regard.

It is true that the deposition of an injured witness is on a high footing and
cannot be discarded lightly unless there are compelling circumstances and the
evidence has to be read as a whole. The inconsistency in the evidence of PW1 as
regards her having been taken to the hospital by the police officials, and her
statement during the cross-examination that PWs 2, 3 and CW4 were with her in
the hospital and CW/4 had come to take her to the hospital; her admission that she
alone was present at the alleged scene of occurrence; and her statement as
regards the injuries sustained alone cannot lead to complete discarding of her

evidence, but is something that would defenetely there is no doubt in her case.
 16
Here, pertaining to the offence punishable under Section 326 of the IPC, the
alleged weapon of offence, that is, the shovel handle is not identified by the injured
witness. The same is seen to have been identified by PWs 2 and 3; whose presence
itself has become questionable for the reason cited supra, leading inference of
them being interested witness. The recovery of alleged weapon by PWS, according
to him is on the basis of identification by PW3, who according to PW1 was not even
there at the scene of occurrence. Neither PW1 nor WS has got a case that the said
shovel handle was identified by PW1. Exhibit P6 though marked, it is not proved.
Even if the doctor who has examined the injured is not available for the
circumstances mentioned in Section 32 of the Indian Evidence Act, the certificate
issued by him would still be relevant and admissible, provided the mode of proof as
contemplated under Section 67 read with Section 47 of Indian Evidence Act is also
complied with. PW7 has no acquaintance with the handwriting or signature of the
CW6, who had in fact examined him and whose presence could not be procurred by
prosecuiton, Hence as rightly argued by the Learned Counsel for the Accused, the
Wound Certificate cannot be relied on. This Court is also unable to accept the
contention of the Learned APP that PW7, being a doctor, his general opinion can
bbe taken into account as to the cause of injury. Here, the general opinion of PW? is,
to the effect that these injuries including the fracture could be caused by means of
‘stone’ and not by shovel handle. Neither PW1 nor Prosecution has got a case
‘that the fracture was caused by a stone, much less by MOs 1 and 2. Had it been
the case, even then, necessary materials ought to have been elicited from the

doctor who has examined PW1 as regards the possibility of death that would have
 7

‘been caused due to the alleged grievous injury, inflicted by use of stone or MOs 1
‘and 2, as weapon of offence; and in case of unavailability of the said doctor, from

another doctor famili

with the former's handwriting or signature which
‘admittedly is not the case here. Hence, this Court is of the view that the
Prosecution has not been able to prove that the Accused has committed the offence
punishable under Section 326 of the IPC beyond reasonable doubt.

Pertaining to the offence punishable under Section 324 of the IPC, as per the
Prosecution case, the brick pieces were thrown at PW1 repeatedly and the injuries
sustained are swelling and contusion on left eye, left elbow, right thumb. PW1 has
no case that she sustained said injuries by means of MOs 1 and 2 on her left elbow
or right thumb. According to her the injuries sustained are on her head, eye and
Jeg. During her cross examination, it was put to her as to whether she had given
statement as injuries sustained on her leg, to which she answered in the
affirmative and further deposed that she has no explanation to offer, if the same is
not so reflected in Exhibit P1. There is no supporting medical evidence before this
Court to corroborate the injuries alleged for the reason cited supra. The recovery
of MOs 1 and 2 by PWS is based on the identification of the alleged weapon of
offence is by PW3, which cannot be relied upon. Although PW1 identified MOs 1
and 2 and deposed the injuries sustained by her, which is of course different from
that of the Prosecution case; the essential ingredient that the ‘hurt’ was caused to
her by the alleged act is not established herein, specifically for the reason that

PW1 has no case that by the injuries so deposed to have been sustained by her she
 18

suffered any pain, bodily disease or infirmity (See Padmakumar v. State of

Kerala, 2024 KER 8129). This is more so, when the medical evidence is not
proved. Hence, even if her evidence is taken on face value as regards the said
offence, for the aforesaid reasons; this Court finds that Prosecution has failed to
substantiate and prove its case that ingredients of offence punishable under
Section 324 IPC is attracted. These points are therefore answered in favour of the
Accused.

7. Point (c) and (4): These points are considered together for the sake of
brevity and for avoiding repetition.

As regards the offence of mischief, it is the case of Prosecution that her left
‘earring was broken. In the dock, she deposed that her chain worth one sovereign
of gold and her earring were allegedly hit and broken by the Accused. Further,
PW1 deposed before the Court that the utensils kept outside the house for feeding
the cattle were broken by the Accused. During the cross-examination, she admitted
to have stated the same to the police but to the specific suggestion put to her as
regards absence of the same seen reflected in Exhibit P1, she had no explanation
to offer except that she has no idea about the same. Thus, itis evident that she had
no such case, except for the earring. Further the earring was stated to have been
broken in the alleged incident and not on account of Accused having hit and
destroyed the same as seen deposed in the dock. It is pertinent to note that no
overt act on the person of PWI as would result in the Accused to hit and destroy
the earring is seen alleged at all. The loss alleged is to the tune of Rs. 15,000.
 19
Moreover, there is no evidence forthcoming from the side of Prosecution as
regards amount alleged to have been lost or to that of the basic ingredients of the

offence of mischief punishable under Section 427 of the IPC.

Pertaining to the offence alleged under Section 447 of the IPC, it is essential
that the alleged trespass by the offender must be with an intention to commit any
offence, or to intimidate, insult or annoy any person in possession of such property.
‘This Court is unable to accept the contention of the Learned Counsel for the
Accused that there is cloud over the scene of occurrence as PW1 is seen to have
deposed that the Accused was not letting her to go out, but there is no specific
mention as to where she was standing and further that as per Exhibit P3, the
alleged scene of occurrence is the courtyard; and that PW1, in her FIS is seen to
have alleged that she ran into her house, when Accused allegedly hit her with
shovel handle. Admittedly, the alleged scene of occurrence as per deposition of
PW and Prosecution case is the front portion of her house, which is the house
‘compound. The fact that PW1 stated in her FIS that she was with shovel handle
‘when she ran into her house as argued by the Learned Counsel for the Accused
cannot be relied on, for the reason that the attention of PW1 was not brought to

the said inconsistency during her examination, nor was the same proved.

In the case at hand, the evidence of PW1 cannot be sald to be wholly
believable, taking into account the inconsistencies in her deposition pertaining to
the fact of the police officials taking her to the hospital, no others having witnessed
the incident, material improvements as regards the alleged acts of Accused
 20
regarding alleged mischief narrated hereinabove coupled with admitted dispute on
account of the property, that is, the house herein and the long-standing rift
between the parties inferred from her own admission that she had filed other cases
‘against the Accused, There is no corroboration on the sald aspects, as the evidence
of PWs 2 and 3, the alleged occurrence witnesses itself is in question. No other
independent witnesses have been cited, In fact, PWS admitted the existence of
other houses nearby, but none have been made witness to the incident. These
‘anomalies, apart from the other reasons have affected the essence of the

Prosecution case, to prove their case beyond reasonable doubt. Therefore, the

trespass, if any, though alleged, for reasons of the suspicious circumstances
brought out herein, absence of independent witnesses, and failure of the
Prosecution to prove the commission of the alleged offences under Sections 324,
326 and 427 of the IPC beyond reasonable doubt; cannot be said to be a trespass
‘with an intention to commit the said offences solely by relying on the testimony of

PW1. Thus, these points are also found in favour of the Accused.

8. Pointe): In the result, this Court finds that the Prosecution has failed to
prove its case beyond reasonable doubt. The Accused is found not guilty of having
‘committed the offences punishable under Sections 447, 324, 326 and 427 of the
Indian Penal Code and is therefore acquitted of the above offences under Section

248(1) of the CrPC. His bail bond stands cancelled and he is set at liberty.

‘The material objects involved in this case which is the brick prieces(Two in

Nos) and the shovel handle entered in Property register as T.No. 171/12 being
 a
valueless shall be destroyed subject to the Rules after the period of Appeal and the
Appeal, if any preferred; pursuant to its finality thereof.

(Dictated to the Confidential Assistant, transcribed and typed by her,
corrected by me and pronounced in open Court on this, the 27" day of December,
2024.)

Judicial Magistrate of First Class -I,
‘Thiruvananthapuram
APPENDIX

‘AcProsecution witness

Rank Name ‘Whether Eye witness, Police
witness, Expert witness,
Medical witness, Other

witness

Pwr ‘Valsala Kumari(CW1) examinaed Occurrence witness
on 04.02.2016

Pw2 Madhusoodanan(CW2) examined Occurrence Witness
(on 06.02.2017

Pw Lathakumari(CW3) examined on Occurrence witness
0.102019

Pw Sivankutti Nair(CW7) examined on Officical Witness |
28.09. 2022

ws Santhosh Kumar(CW8)examined Official Witness
(on 07.12.2023

we \V Saijanath{CW9) examined on Oficial Winess ]
16.01.2024

Pw? "Dr-Sunil Kumar(Additional Witness) | Medical Witness
 2

‘examined on 21.10.2024

BiDefence witness

Rank Name (Whether Eye witness, Police
tess, Expert witness,
Medical witness, Other
witness
Nil Nil Nil
‘C-Court witness
Rank Name ‘Whether Eye witness, Police

witness, Expert witness,
Medical witness, Other
witness

Nil Nil Nil
ist of Prosecution/Defence/Court Exhibits
A. Prosecution Exhibits

SL. No| Exhibit Number Description
1 PI/PWI First Information Statement dated 18.02.2010
2 P2PW First Information Report dated 18.02.2010

3 P2ayPw4 [Body Nove dated 28.09.2022

n P3/PWS Scene mahazar dated 18.02.2010,

5 PA/PWS List of Properies dated 18.02.2010,

6 P5/PWS Address report dated ail

7 P6/PW6 Wound Certificate dated 17.02.2010
 2B

SL.No | Exhibit No.

Nil Nil Nil

©. Court Exhibits

SL.No

Description

Nil Nil Nil

1D. Material Objects

‘SL.No | Exhibit No. Description
a MOI and MO2 Brick Pieces(Two in Nos)
2 ‘Moa ‘Shovel Handle

Judicial First Class Magisteate-,

‘Thiruvananthapuram.
 24

CALENDAR AND JUDGMENT.

District of Thiruvananthapuram Calendar of cases tried by the Judicial I Class
Magistrate Court, Thiruvananthapuram.

Description of the Accused
Occupatt
‘SLNo| Name. Father's Name. on Residence _| Age.
1_|—Sivankutty Nair Madhavan Pillai 35

Judgment in Calendar Case No.CC.537/12 on the file of the Judicial I Class
Magistrate Court, Thiruvananthapuram.

Complainant:-State represented by the Sub Inspector of Police, Sreekaryam Police
Station in Crime No 99/2010 (By Assistant Public Prosecutor)

Dates of
‘Occurrence | Report | Apprehensi | Release on | Commence | Close | Sentence
‘on oF bail ‘ment of
or | appearance trial of or
Complaint trial Order

17.02.2010 | 18.02.2010 | 19.02.2010 | 19.02.2010 | 16.07.2014 | 23.12.2024 | 27.12.2024

‘Offences: Punishable U/ss.447, 324, 326 and 427 of the Indian Penal Code
Finding: Not guilty
Sentence

: The Accused is found not guilty of having committed the offences
punishable under Sections 447, 324, 326 and 427 of the Indian
Penal Code and is therefore acquitted of the above
offences under Section 248(1) of the CrPC

Judicial I Class Magistrate-1,

 ‘Thiruvananthapuram,

DOCKET

Date of Receipt...

Remarks of the District
Magistrate...

Date of Despatch.

Date of Receipt...

Reply of

the .. Magistrate

Date of Despatch ..

Date of receipt...

Remarks of Sub Divisional Magistrate

From
Judicial I Class Magistrate-1,
‘Thiruvananthapuram,

To
‘The Hon'ble Chief Judicial Magistrate,

‘Thiruvananthapuram.

CC No. 537/12

Date of Judgment: 27.12.24
Date of Despatch:
Date of Calendar :

Date of receipt
 26
