 IN THE COURT OF THE CHIEF JUDICIAL MAGISTRATE.
‘THIRUVANANTHAPUI
Present:
SUJAK.M
CHIEF JUDICIAL MAGISTRATE, THIRUVANANTHAPURAM

Monday, the 03rd_day of March, 2025.
M.C. No.135/2025

Petitioner The Kerala State Co-operative Bank Ltd. Regional Office,
Thiruvananthapuram having branch offices at various place including
Vithura Branch, Thiruvananthapuram, represented by their Authorized
Officer Raheena Beevi.S, D/o Ebrahim Kunju, aged 52 years, Nidhi,
Pacha P.O, Palode, Thirwvananthapuram.
(By Adv.Sri.Thottam S Rajeev)

Respondents 1 Jayachandran N S/o Narayana Pilla, aged 54 years, Vilayil Veedu,
Thennur P.O, Vithura Village, Nedumagnad Taluk,
‘Thiravananthapuram,

2 Sharadamma, D/o Saraswathy Amma, aged 68 years, _Vilayil
Veedu, ‘Thennur P.O, Vithura Village, Nedumagnad Taluk,
Thiruvananthapuram,

3 Renjana D/o Sharadamma aged 48 years, Vilayil Veedu, Thennur
P.O, Vithura Village, Nedumagnad Taluk, Thiruvananthapuram.

ORDER

‘This petition was filed under section 14 of the Securitization and
Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest
Act, 2002 (hereinafter referred to as “Act”) for taking possession of the
secured asset which is the scheduled property.

2. The petitioner is a Co-operative bank registered with the
Reserve Bank of India. It is represented by its authorized officer. The
petitioner is the secured creditor and the respondents are the secured
debtors. The respondents created a security interest by virtue of a security
agreement in respect of the scheduled property ie., the secured asset in
 favour of the petitioner in respect of the financial assistance that they availed
from the petitioner. The respondents committed default in repaying the loan,
‘Therefore the account was classified as Non Performing Asset. On
27/01/2021, the petit
the respondents calling upon them to repay the loan amount in full within

mner issued a demand notice u/s.13(2) of the Act to

60 days. The notice was served on the respondents. Even after the issuance
of demand notice u/s.13(2) of the Act, the respondents did not repay the
Joan amount within the statutory period. So, the petitioner filed this petition
for taking possession of the secured asset for realization of the amount due
to the petitioner's bank.

3. The authorized Officer of the petitioner filed affidavit in
compliance of Sec.14 of the Act, The affidavit and the documents
produced by the petitioner show that the respondents created a security
interest in respect of the secured asset in favour of the petitioner at the
time of availing loan and they failed to repay the amount even after the
receipt of the statutory notice u/s.13(2) of the Act. Hence I find that the
petitioner is entitled for possession of the secured asset which is the
scheduled property through the proceedings of this court.

In the result, the petition is allowed as follows:-

1. Advocate Sandra S.L (K/4102/23) is appointed as the

commissioner to take possession of the scheduled property with due

notice to the respondents and hand it over to the petitioner on proper
acknowledgment. The petitioner shall pay a batta of Rs.5500/- to the
commissioner within 15 days from today and and pay Rs.1500/- on
filing report by the commissioner.

2, The petit

nner shall provide a copy of the petition inclu

ing
the schedule of secured asset to the advocate commissioner for

executing the order.
 3

3. The Station House Officer of the Police Station in the area
in which the secured assets situated, shall give necessary assistance to
the commissioner if so required for executing the order.

4. The Advocate commissioner is permitted to break open the
premises if required so.

5. The commissioner is directed to prepare an inventory in
triplicate to be attested by two respectable witnesses as regards the
execution of this order and in taking possession of the scheduled
property and copies thereof shall be given to the petitioner as well
as the respondents on proper acknowledgment. The remaining one
copy shall be filed along with the commissioner's report before the
court.

6. The commissioner shall execute the order within 60 days
from the date of payment of first part of the batta as directed in

clause (i).

(Dietated to the Confidential Assistant, transcribed and typed by her, corrected and
pronounced by me in open court on this the O3rd day of March, 2025)

CHIEF JUDICIAL MAGISTRATE
‘THIRUVANANTHAPURAM
