 IN THE COURT OF THE JUDICIAL MAGISTRATE OF THE FIRST CLASS-I
‘THIRUVANANTHAPURAM
Present: Smt. Karthika $ Varma, Judicial I Class Magistrate-I,
‘Thirwvananthapuram
‘Monday, the 09" day of January, 2025

Calendar Case No. 114/2015,

Complainant Mis. Thiruvananthapuram District Co-operative

Bank, Represented by its Branch Manager,
Sreekaryam Branch, ‘Sreekaryam,
‘Thiruvananthapuram

(By Adv. A Yahiakhan_)

Recused Kawsalya D, Panayil Puthen Veedu, Edavacode,
Sreekaryam, Thiruvananthapuram

Offence Under Section 138 of the Negotiable
Instruments Act.1881
Finding/Sentence/Order ‘The Accused is acquitted of the offences

punishable under 138 of the IPC under Section,
280 of the BNSS.

‘This case having finally come up for consideration before this Court on
09.01.2025 and on the same day, this Court passed the following:

ORDER

1. This case arises out of Complaint filed under Section 190(1)(c) of the
Code of Criminal Procedure (hereinafter referred to as ‘the CrPC’) alleging
commission of offence punishable under Section 138 of the Negotiable
Instruments Act, 1881 (hereinafter referred to as the ‘NI Act’.

2. On service of summons, the Accused entered appearance and was
enlarged on bail. Copies of all relevant documents were furnished to the
Accused, Particulars of the offence under Section 138 of the NI Act were read
over and explained to the Accused and he understood the same. He pleaded not
‘guilty to the offence alleged against him and claimed to be tried.

3. The case stood posted for the continuation of Examination-in-Chief of the
Complainant, at which juncture, the matter was fully and finally settled between
‘the parties and the loan availed by the Accused from the Complainant was
closed. The Complainant filed an Application as C.M.P. No, 38/2025 under
Section 280 of the Bharatiya Nagarik Suraksha Sanhita (hereinafter referred to
 ‘as the BNSS), seeking permission of this Court to withdraw this case against
the Accused on the said ground, stating that there is no requirement for further
prosecuting this case,

4. On consideration of the said Application, this Court is satisfied that there
are sufficient grounds to permit the Complainant to withdraw the Complaint
against the Accused and the Application was accordingly allowed. In light of the
same, the Accused is acquitted thereof under Section 280 of the BNSS.

Judicial Magistrate of First Class-
‘Thiruvananthapuram
