 IN THE COURT OF THE CHIEF JUDICIAL MAGISTRATE
THIRUVANANTHAPURAM

Present:
SUJAK.M

CHIEF JUDICIAL MAGISTRATE, THIRUVANANTHAPURAM
Friday, the 28" day of February, 2025
M.C. No.78/2025

Petitioner Kerala State Co-operative Bank Ltd., ‘Thiruvananthapuram,
represented by the Authorized officer / Area Manager
(By Adv.Smt.Vijila V.V)

Respondents 1 Rajeshkumar TS aged 44 years, S/o Thankappan,
Mekkumkara Puthen Veedu, —_Chattumukku,
Venkidiyoorkonam, Nemom, Thiruvananthapuram.

2 Binutha @ Binitha, aged 39 years, D/o Omana,
Vadakkekara Puthenveedu, —_Chatthumukku,
‘Thiruvananthapuram.

3 Susheela, aged 66 years, D/o Victoria, Vadakkekara
Puthen veedu, Chatthumukku, Thiruvananthapuram.

ORDER

This petition was filed under section 14 of the Securitization
and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of
Security Interest Act, 2002 (hereinafter referred to as “Act”) for
taking possession of the secured asset which is the scheduled
property.

2. The petitioner is a bank. It is represented by its
authorized officer. The petitioner is the secured creditor and the
respondents are the secured debtors. The respondents created a
security interest by virtue of a security agreement in respect of the
scheduled property ie., the secured asset in favour of the petitioner
in respect of the financial assistance that they availed from the
 petitioner. The respondents committed default in repaying the loan.
Therefore the account was classified as Non Performing Asset. So, on
22/05/2018 the petitioner issued a demand notice u/s 13(2) of the Act
to the respondents calling upon them to repay the loan amount in full
within 60 days. The notice was served on the respondents. Even after
the notice w/s.13(2) of the Act, they did not pay the loan amount
within the statutory period. So, the petitioner filed this petition for
taking possession of the secured asset for realization of the amount
due to the petitioner's bank.

3. The authorized Officer of the petitioner filed affidavit in
compliance of Sec.14 of the Act. The affidavit and the documents
produced by the petitioner show that the respondents created a
security interest in respect of the secured asset in favour of the
petitioner at the time of availing loan from the petitioner and failed
to repay the amount even after the receipt of statutory notice
u/s.13(2) of the Act. Hence I find that the petitioner is entitled for
possession of the secured asset which is the scheduled property
through the proceedings of this court.

In the result, the petition is allowed as follows:-

i. Advocate Rejina.R (K/726/2017) is appointed as the
commissioner to take possession of the scheduled property with due
notice to the respondents and hand it over to the petitioner on proper
acknowledgment. The petitioner shall pay a batta of Rs.5500/- to the
commissioner within 15 days from today and and pay Rs.1500/- on
filing report by the commissioner.

fi, The petit

nner shall provide a copy of the petition including
the schedule of secured asset to the advocate commissioner for

executing the order.
 3

iii. ‘The Station House Officer, Nemom Police Station, shall give
necessary assistance to the commissioner if so required for executing the
order.

iv. The Advocate commissioner is permitted to break open the
premises if required so.

v. The commissioner is directed to prepare an inventory in
triplicate to be attested by two respectable witnesses as regards the
execution of this order and in taking possession of the scheduled
property and copies thereof shall be given to the petitioner as well
as the respondent on proper acknowledgment. The remaining one
copy shall be filed along with the commissioner's report before the
court.

vi. The commissioner shall execute the order within 60 days
from the date of payment of first part of the bata as directed in

clause (i).

(Dictate to the Confidential Assistant, transcribed and typed by her, corrected and
pronounced by me in open court on this the 28th day of February, 2025)

CHIEF JUDICIAL MAGISTRATE
‘THIRUVANANTHAPURAM
