 IN THE COURT OF JUDICIAL MAGISTRATE OF THE FIRST CLASS.

‘THIRUVANANTHAPURAM

Present: Sri, Vinod Babu M.U

Judicial

‘Magistrate of the First Class IIT

Friday, 14* day of February, 2025/25" Magha 1946

Complainant

Accused

Offence

Plea

Finding
Order

CC. No. 655/2016

Hridayamony.S, aged 76 years, D/o T. Janardhana
Pillai, TC.25/105, G A Kovil Road, Puthenchanthai,
Trivandrum -1.

(By AdvSri, Fathahudeen.M)

Titus Abraham, aged 60 years, C/o Perumbadavam
Sreedharan, Perumbadavam House, Kattavila
Road, Thamalam, Poojappura P.O., Thiruvanantha-
puram.

(By Adv. Sri.T. Hari Kumar)

Under Section 138 of the Negotiable Instruments
Act.

Not Guilty
Guilty

‘The accused is sentenced to undergo simple
imprisonment for a period of one year and to pay a
fine of Rs.3,08,000/- (Rupees Three Lakhs Eight
Thousand Only) and in default of payment of fine
the accused shall undergo simple imprisonment for a
period of three months. If the fine amount is
realised, it shall be given to the complainant as
compensation under Section 357(3) of the Code of
Criminal Procedure.

DESCRIPTION OF ACCUSED

Rank and Name Husband’s Name Age Village Taluk

L.Titus Abraham

Abraham

60 Thirumala Thiruvananthapuram
 2

DATES OF
Offence | Complaint | Apprehension | Period of detention under-| Release on
gone during investigation, bail
inquiry or trial for the
purpose of S. 428 CPC
16.02.16 | 05.04.16 | 24.10.18 24.10.18 24.10.18
‘Commencement| Commencement] Close of wial | Sentence or | Reason for
of trial of evidence order delay
Accused was
17.08.19 28.05.22 31.01.25 1402.25 ean

‘This case having been finally heard today, the court today delivered the
following:-
JUDGMENT

1. The case tuted on complaint filed by the complainant alleging the
commission of offence punishable under Section 138 of the Negotiable
Instruments Act.

2. The complainant's cas
are acquainted with each other, The accused was running an internet cafe near

the house of the complainant. In the month of October 2015, the accused

brief, is as follows: The complainant and accused

approached the complainant and requested him to advance a loan of
Rs. 2,00,000/- (Rupees Two Lakhs only) to meet his urgent financial necessity
in connection with his business. The accused believed the complainant that
he would repay the amount within three weeks. Believing the words of the
accused the complainant pledged her gold ornaments and arranged
Rs. 2,00,000/- (Rupees Two Lakhs only) for giving it to the accused. The
said amount was handed over to the accused and in discharge legally
enforceable debt the accused executed a cheque bearing No. 000009 dated
01.02.2016 for an amount of Rs. 2,00,000/- (Rupees Two Lakhs only) from
his account maintained in the Bank of Baroda, Palayam branch,
 3

‘Thiruvananthapuram. As assured by the accused the complainant presented the
said cheque for encashment through her banker United Bank of India,
‘Thiruvananthapuram . The said cheque was returned unpaid for the reason
“Funds insufficient” and the same was intimated to the complainant as per the
dishonour memo dated 16.02.2016. The complainant thereafter issued a
lawyer's notice dated 27.02.2016 and the same was received on 01.03.2016.
‘The accused neither replied nor repaid the amount covered by the said
cheque. Hence the act on the part of the accused constituted the offence
punishable under Section 138 of the Negotiable Instruments Act.

On the issuance of summons, the accused appeared before the court. The

accused was furnished copies of prosecution records and thereby
complied with the mandate under section 207 of the Criminal Procedure Code.
‘Thereafter, the accused was heard on the charge levelled against him.
Particulars of offence under Section 138 of the Negotiable Instruments Act was
read over him, and he pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.

From the side of the complainant, the complainant examined one witness as
PW1 and marked six documents as Exts.P1 to PG. From the side of the de-
fence, DW1 and DW2 were examined and Exts. DI and D2 were marked.

On the completion of the complainant's evidence, the accused was questioned
under Section 313 (1) (b) of the Criminal Procedure Code, in which he denied
all the incriminating circumstances appearing in the prosecution evidence
against him,

Heard the learned counsel of the complainant and the learned counsel for the
accused.

‘The points that arise for determination are as follow:

1 Whether the accused executed and issued Ext P2 cheque in favour of
the complainant ?

2 Whether the Ext P2 cheque was issued in discharge of a legally
enforceable debt or liability?
 4

3 Whether the accused committed an offence punishable under Section
138 of the Negotiable Instruments Act?

4 If the accused is found guilty, what is the order as to sentence?

8, Points No.1 to 3 :
considered together. In this case, from the side of the complainant, the

For the sake of convenience these points are to be

complainant was examined as PWI and Ext P1 to P6 were marked. From the
side of the defence DW1 and DW2 were examined and Ext D1 and D2 were
‘marked. On analysing the evidence of PW1, DW1 and DW2 and on perusing
Ext PI to P6 and D1 and D2 and on hearing both sides.

9. The learned counsel for the complainant filed an argument note and
conducted a hearing in this case by putting forward the point that the
complainant has discharged his burden in proving the offence under Section
138 of the Negotiable Instruments Act against the accused. The leamed
counsel for the PWI (complainant) submitted that the complainant had given
evidence in tune with the complaint. During the cross examination, PW1
(complainant) categorically deposed that the accused and his wife came to her
residence and accepted the amount of Rs. 2,00,000 (Rupees Two Lakhis only )
and executed Ext P2 cheque in favour of PW1 (complainant). The accused
not denied that fact. The specific case of the accused through the examination
of DW1 and DW2 is that he had not issued Ext P2 cheque in favour of PWI
(complainant). ‘The accused had transaction with DW2 who is the son of
PW1 (complainant) and due to the instigation of DW2, PW1 filed this
complaint against the accused. The accused was a producer of a Television

serial and DW2 was working with him as his executive producer. But DW2
denied that fact and is was not proved by the accused. ‘The allegation that Ext
P2 cheque was issued by the accused to DW2 is a fact within the special
knowledge of the accused and that is to be proved in accordance with section
106 of the Indian Evidence Act. The accused neither repaid nor replied after
receiving the Ext P4 advocate notice issued by PW1 (complainant).
 5

10. The learned counsel for the accused placed the decision of the Hon'ble High
Court in Gopakumar P, Vs. B. Anilkumar and Another reported in 2011
(3) KHC 850 and submitted that as per the decision when accused. failed to
explain why a reply notice was not sent would weaken the defence case.
Another contention is that even though the accused has disputed the
transaction he had not denied the cheque and the signature put in Ext P2
cheque. Then the leamed counsel for the PW1 (complainant) placed the
decision of Vasanthakumar Vs. Viyakumari reported in 2015 KHC 4332 it is
held that if the cheque is admitted and the signature is also admitted the com-
plainant is entitled to get presumption available under Sections 118 and 139
of the Negotiable Instruments Act. To buttress the said point the leamed
counsel placed another decision Kalamani Tex and Another V. P. Balasubra-

2021 (5) SCC 283 and another decision Raju M.

Thomas V. State of Kerala reported in 2021 KHC 3234. Kalamani Tex V.

Subramanian reported in 2021 (5) SCC 281 In addition to it, the accused

‘manyan reported

raised another defence during the cross examination is that the signature and
writings in the Ext P2 cheque are different, In Oriental Bank Of Commerce
Vs. Prabodh Kumar Tewari reported in 2022 (4) KLT 1231 it is held that
even if the details of the cheque have not been filled up by the drawer but by
another person that is not relevant to the defence whether the cheque was is-
sued towards payment of a debt or in discharge of liability. So on going by the
aforesaid facts, evidence and the decisions of Hon’ble Apex Court the learned
counsel for the PW1 (complainant) submitted that PW1 (complainant) has
proved his case beyond any reasonable doubts that the accused executed a
Ext P2 cheque and received 2 lakhs rupees in discharge of legally enforce-
able debt. The accused also failed to rebut the presumption available under
Section 139 of the Negotiable Instruments Act as per law in favour of the com-
plainant. So complainant is entitled to get adequate compensation including
the cheque amount and_ interest as prayed for the complaint.

11. The defence counsel on the other hand refuted the contentions put forward by
 6

the counsel for the complainant and stated that merely putting a signature in
cheque leaf is not a valid execution. This aspect was discussed in A Pathu
and Others Vs. Khatheesa Umma reported in 1990(2) KLJ. 115. The learned
defence counsel put a question for consideration is whether a cheque bears
only the admitted signature of the accused can be considered as execution of a
cheque. To substantiate this contention the learned counsel for the accused
placed the decisions of Hon’ble High Court of Kerala Joseph Vs. Gladis
Sasi reported in 2010(3) KLT 379, Santhy C V. Mary Sherly and Another
reported in 2011 (3) KHC 22, Purushothaman Nair V. Sreekantan Nair
reported in 2013 (4) KLJ 256 and submitted that as per the decision

stated that admission of the person that he signed a blank cheque leaf does not
amount to the execution of the cheque.

12, The learned defence counsel submitted that when the same question was came
‘up for consideration in Ranganna V. Mohan (AIR 2010 SCC 1898) the
Hon’ble Supreme Court of India held that _ since the accused did admit that
the cheque was hi

the statutory presumption comes in to play. The leamed
counsel for the accused placed some other decisions of Hon’ble Supreme
Court of India and Hon’ble High Court of Kerala which are as follows: ANSS
Rajashekar Vs. Agustus Jeba Ananth (2019 (2) KHC 155), Shabeer M Vs.
Anitha Bajee and Another (2022 (6) KHC 704),Ahammed PK V. State of
Kerala (2024(3) KHC 176), Bharat Barrel and Drum Mfg Co. V. Amin
Chand Payerlal reported in 1999 KHC 467 and Basalingappa_V.
‘Mudibasappa, (2019 (2) KHC 451). Based on the decisions the learned coun-
sel for the accused argued that the PW1 (complainant) had failed to adduce
evidence to prove his case.

13.The learned defence counsel submitted that the PW1 (complainant) is
‘unaware about the whereabouts of the accused. In the examination in chief of
PW1 (complainant) stated that the accused approached PW1 for urgent
financial assistance. But during the cross examination PW stated that she had

lent money to the accused upon the request of her son. It is brought out from
 7

the evidence of PW1 that nobody is present in the house of the complainant at
the time of alleged transaction. So the consideration of Ext P2 cheque is not
at all proved by other aspects. PW1 in her cross examination kept mum
while asking questions relating to the date of transaction and issuance of the
Ext P2 cheque. The learned defence counsel pointed out some discrepancies
in the testimony of complainant through his argument note.

14.1 have gone through those matters and considered those contentions put
forward by the leamed defence counsel in this case. Another defence is that
PW1 deposed that during 2015 the accused might have resided either in
‘Thycaud or Vazhuthacaud. But the advocate notice was sent to the address in
the place of Thamalam and that too was not accepted by the accused. The
learned defence counsel submitted that throughout the evidence, and 313 of the
accused, he hada consistent version that the accused was a producer of a
television serial Mughom and the Son of the complainant Harikumar was a
exec

producer. The son of the complainant was entrusted with the cheque
leaf as a part of his work purpose and Ext P2 cheque was also. in his custody
along with other cheque leafs. The complainant’s son demanded money from
the accused and accused failed to pay it. So DW2, the son of the complainant
‘misused Ext P2 cheque and filed this case through PW1. In order to prove it
son of PW1 was examined as DW2. Non examination of DW2 by PW1 itself
proves the falsity of the case set up by PW1. From the side of the accused the

‘manager of Bank of Baroda was examined as DW1 and Ext D1 and D2 were
‘marked. Ext D1 is the statement of the account and Ext D2 is the passbook.
Ext P2 cheque is bearing no. 000009. From Ext D1 and D2 documents, it can
be seen that except Ext P2 cheque all other cheque leafs were passed by the
bank during 2013 and 2014. But the Ext P2 cheque is dated 01.02.2016. So
this discredit the version of PW that the cheque was issued in the year 2016
by the accused to PW1 for a legally enforceable debt. In an ordinary course of
the transaction, it would happen by using cheque leafs continuously one by

‘one in a constitutive manner . So it cannot be presumed that the accused kept

 Ext P2 cheque in his custody after the issuance of the constitutive cheque leafs
0 as to give it to the PW1 for the discharge of legally enforceable debt in the
year 2016. It is true that the accused did not issue reply notice to Ext P4
advocate notice. In Rajmohan V. Chandrika Shaji reported in 2023 KHC
253 is observed that failure to send a reply notice by itself cannot lead to the
conclusion of the allegation of notice being accepted. In the facts and
circumstances of the case, the only conclusion that can be drawn is that
whether the complainant failed to establish the presumption of the existence
the legally enforceable debt and the same has been rebutted by the accused.
Hence the accused may be acquitted on the ground that the PW1(complainant)
failed to prove this case beyond reasonable doubt in support of the two cardinal
presumptions against the accused w/s. 118 and 139 of the Negotiable
Instruments Act.

15. Ihave analysed the evidence of PW1, DW1 and DW2 and perused Ext P1 to
P6, D1 and D2. The specific case of the accused is that he had never executed
an Ext P2 cheque in favour of PW1 for any legally enforceable debt. The
accused was a producer of a Television serial named Mughom and the son of
PW1 who was examined as DW2 was the Executive producer of that
Television serial. ‘The accused entrusted some cheque leafs to DW2 for
facilitating production work of his serial. ‘The complainant's son (DW2)
misused the cheque and demanded money. When the accused refused the
demand of DW2, DW2 misused the Ext P2 cheque and filed this complaint
through PW1 who is the mother of DW2. It is brought out from the evidence
of PWI that PW1 was acquainted with the accused through DW2. PW1 was
subjected to lengthy cross examination by the defence counsel. During the
‘cross examination PW1 stated that due to the immediate financial necessity,
the accused approached him and borrowed a sum of Rs. 2,00,000/- (Rupees
‘Two Lakhs only) and the said amount was given as per the direction of DW2.

16. On analysing the evidence of PW1 it is true that she could not_know much
about the accused and the accused was introduced to her by DW2. On
 9
analysing the evidence of DW2 it is seen that a specific question was asked by
the defence counsel as follows ‘cles midoat — agglaystar
SEPWYNS ENEMA. JI Hes eHALAERIOG qo Messi
ales @DENT Casa SHEE CHSTIAE amaaratooore woRn.”
Answer - ‘oases’ cuomimwaxm 26020 callers smessi cased
{08)." So from the evidence of DW2, it is clear that he completely denied the

specific defence put forward by the defence counsel. Even though PW1 was

subjected to lengthy cross examination there is some discrepancies with regard
to the whereabouts of the accused but she had deposed in tune with the
complaint that Ext P2 cheque was executed by the accused in her residence.
During the cross examination, the defence counsel put a question with regard
to the difference in handwriting and signature in Ext P2 cheque, But
nothing was brought out from the cross examination of PW1 regarding this
aspect. In this aspect, [have referred the decision of the Hon'ble High Court
of Kerala in Oriental Bank of Commerce ¥. Prabodh Kumar Tewari
reported in 2022 (5) KHC 560 held that the fact the details in cheque by
filled up not by the drawer but by some other person could de in material.
‘The presumption which arises for the signing of cheque cannot be rebutted
merely by the report of a handwriting expert. Even if the details of the cheque
have not been filled up by the drawer but by another person this is not relevant
to the defence whether the cheque was issued to the payment of debt. In
Kalamani Tex V. P. Balasubramanian reported in 2021 (5) SCC 281 is held
that a drawer who signs a cheque and hands it over to the payee is presumed
tobe liable unless the drawer adduces evidence to rebut the presumption that
the cheque has been issued towards the payment of a debt or discharge of a
liability. So the contention put forward by the defence counsel on this point
‘would not sustain in this case. The second defence put forward by the defence
counsel is that even though the accused did not issue a reply notice in answer

to the Ext P3 advocate notice is not fatal to the case of the defence in the light
 of the decision of Rajmohan ¥. Chandrika Shaji reported in 2023 KHC 253.
‘The Hon'ble High Court of Kerala observed that failure to sent reply notice by
itself cannot lead to a conclusion that the allegation in the notice is being
accepted. I have gone through the decision of Hon’ble High Court of Kerala
in para no. 6 it is observed that the failure on the part of the accused to sent a
reply notice is not to be taken seriously in the circumstances of the case. No
doubt failure to sent reply notice cannot lead to a conclusion that the allegation
in the notice being accepted. At the same time the Hon'ble High Court by
referring to the decision of Gopakumar P. Vs. B. Anilkumar reported in
2011 (3) KHC 850 held that failure of the accused to explain the reason for
not sending the reply notice would weaken the defence case, Here in this
case, the defence has failed to explain the reason for not sending the reply
notice to the Ext P4 advocate notice. So the sole contention put forward by

defence counsel that non sending of reply notice would not weaken the

defence case in its entirety would not sustain in this case.
‘The PW1 (complainant) denied to all the suggestive questions put forward
by the defence counsel regarding the non execution of Ext P3 cheque by the
accused. So the question to be considered is whether the accused discharged

his

tial burden to rebut the presumption of law available under
Section 139 of the Negotiable Instrument Act. To answer this point, I have
gone through the following decisions of the Hon'ble Apex Court and
observation is made by the Hon'ble Apex Court. To answer this point I have
‘gone through the decision of the Hon'ble Apex Court in Gimpex Private Ltd.
V. Manoj Goel reported in (2022)11 SCC 705, the Hon'ble Apex Court has
unpacked the ingredients forming the basis of the offence under Section 138
of the Negotiable Instruments Act the following structure:-

1, The drawing of a cheque by person on an account maintained by him
with the banker for payment of any amount of money to another person
from that account.

2, The cheque being drawn in discharge of whole or part of the debt or
 u

other liability.

3. Presentation of the cheque to the bank arranged to be paid from that
account.

4, The return of the cheque by the drawee bank as unpaid either because
the amount of money standing to the credit of that account is insufficient
to honour the cheque.

5. Anotice by the payee making a demand for the payment of the amount
to the drawer of the cheque within 30 days of the receipt of information
from the bank in regard to the return of the cheque.

6. ‘The drawer of the cheque failed to make payment to the payee within 15,
days of the receipt of the notice.

7. These matters were summarized by the Hon’ble Apex Court in K.
Bhaskaran V. Sankaran Vaidyan Balan (1999) 7 SCC 510.

18. The five acts as set out by the Hon'ble Apex Court in the above deci

ms are
generally speaking matters of record and would be available in the form of
documentary evidence as early as, at the stage of filing the complaint and
initiating prosecution, Apart from that it is also to be proved that the cheque
‘was issued in discharge of debt or liability as explained by the Hon'ble Apex

Court in the Gimpex case. So the burden of proving this fact could ordinarily

fall upon the complainant. But under Section 139 requires the accused to prove
the non-existence of the presumed fact ie, that the cheque was not issued in
discharge of a debt or liability. The Negotiable Instruments Act provides for
two presumptions Section 118 and 139 of the Negotiable Instruments Act.
Section 118 of the Negotiable Instruments Act interalia directed that it shall be
presumed until the contrary is proved, that every Negotiable Instruments was
made or drawn for consideration. On the other hand, Section 139 of the
[Negotiable Instruments Act stipulates that unless the contrary is proved it shall
be presumed that the holder of the cheque received the cheque, for the
discharge of, whole or part or any debt or liability. It seems that "presumed
fact" directly relates to one of the crucial ingredients to sustain a conviction
 19,

under Section 138 of the Negotiable Instruments Act. Section 139 of the
‘Negotiable Instruments Act requires that the court shall presume the fact stated
therein. So it is obligatory for the court to raise this presumption in every case
‘where a factual basis for raising the presumption had been established.

‘The court will necessarily presume that the cheque had been issued towards
the discharge of legally enforceable debt in two circumstances. Firstly, when
the drawer of the cheque admits the execution of the cheque and secondly, in
the event where the complainant proves that the cheque was executed. in his
favour by the drawer. This matter was discussed by the Hon’ble Apex Court
Bharath Barrel V. Amin Chand (1999) 3 SCC 35. Recently, the Hon'ble
Apex Court in Bir Singh V. Mukesh Kumar 2019 (2) KLJ 205 has discussed
about a situation where the accused contends that a blank cheque leaf was
voluntarily signed and handed over by him to the complainant, The Hon’ble
Apex Court held that mere admission of the drawer’s signature without
admitting the execution of the entire contends in the cheque is now sufficient
to trigger the presumption. At the same time in  Basalingappa V.
‘Mudibasappa reported in AIR 2019 SCC 1983 and Kumar Exports V.
Sharma Carpets 2009 (2) SCC 513. It is held that in order to rebut the
presumption and prove to the contrary, it is open to the accused to raise a
probable defence wherein the existence of a legally enforceable debt or
liability can be contested. ‘The word “ until the contrary” is proved occurring
the section 139 does not mean that accused must necessarily prove in all
aspects that the instrument is not issued in discharge of any debt or liability
but the accused has the option to bring circumstances of the case to act upon

the supposition that debt
Hon’ble Apex Court it is seen that the accused is left with two options. The
first option for proving that the debt does not exist is to lead defence evidence
and conclusive establish with certainty that the cheque was not issued in

id not exist. On going through the decision of the

discharge of a debt. The second option is to prove the non-existence of debt

by a preponderance of probabilities by referring to the particular circumstances
 B

of the case. In Kumar Exports and Sharma Carpets case Supra the Hon’ble
Apex Court observed that the preponderance of probability in favour of the
accused's is may be fifty-one to forty-nine arising out of the entire
circumstances of the case which includes the complainant's version in the orig-
inal complaint, the case taken on the demand notice, complainant's case at the
trial, plea of the accused in the reply notice, his 313 statement and defence
taken at the trial as to the circumstances under which the cheque was disputed.
‘The accused can adduce direct evidence to prove that the instrument was not
issued in discharge of a debt or liability and if he adduced acceptable
evidence the burden again shifts to the complainant, Here in this case, the
accused have not adduced sufficient evidence during the trial proceedings in
this case so as to rebut the presumption available under Section 139 of the
Negotiable Instruments Act. In Bir Singh V; Mukesh Kumar reported in 2019
(4) SCC 197 it is held that mere admission of drawers signature without
admitting the execution of the entire contents in the cheque is now sufficient
to trigger the presumption. Here in this case, the accused has only raised a
suggestive question during the cross-examination denying the execution of the
cheque without any proof to raise a probable defence to conclusively establish
with certainty that the cheque was not issued in discharge of debt by
preponderance of probabilities referring to the particular circumstances of the
case as discussed by Hon'ble Apex Court in Basalingappa —_V.
‘Mudibasappa reported in AIR 2019 SCC 1983 and Kumar Exports V.
Sharma Carpets discussed in (2009) 2 SCC 513. So based on the above
discussion in the light of the decision of the Hon’ble Apex Court it can be seen
that accused did not adduce any direct evidence to prove that the Ext P2
cheque was not issued to PWI (complainant) in the discharge of a legally
enforceable debt. Except the argument of the defence counsel that the Ext
P2 cheque was not executed for an amount of Rs. 2,00,000/- (Rupees Two
Lakhs Only) as a security for the legally enforceable debt as_contended by the
PW1 (complainant), no single piece of evidence was adduced from the side of
 4

defence to substantiate his contention even by a preponderance of probabilities
by referring to the particular circumstances of the case as discussed above.

20. In this case even though PW1 subjected to lengthy cross examination nothing
‘more has been brought out in this case to rebut the presumption available under
Section 139 of the Negotiable Instruments Act. Even though defence counsel
put forward a strong defence that the Ext P2 cheque in question was not
handed over to PW1 and there is no transaction as alleged by PW1., it was not
proved through cogent evidence to show that the Ext P2 cheque was not issued
in discharge of the debt as. stated in the complaint. The accused has failed to
point out inconsistencies in the evidence of PW1 and also to set forth
preponderance of probabilities through his defence case. So as to rebut the
presumption available under Section 139 of the Negotiable Instruments Act.

2

. Based on the analysis of evidence in this case this court finds that the PW1
(complainant) has proved beyond reasonable doubt that the accused borrowed
an amount of Rs. 2,00,000/- (Rupees Two Lakhs Only) from the PW1
(complainant) and issued Ext P2 cheque for the legally enforceable debt.
Hence this court finds that the accused committed the offence under Section
138 of the Negotiable Instruments Act. Hence, these points are found in
favour of the complainant.

22. Point No, 4:- In the result, the accused is found guilty of offence punishable

under Section 138 of the Negotiable Instruments Act and is convicted

thereunder. Considering the circumstances of the case that it comes under the
category of Negotiable Instruments Act and is punishable under Section 138 of
the Negotiable Instruments Act, I am not inclined to invoke the provisions of
the Probation of Offenders Act in favour of the accused. The accused has to
be given adequate punishment for the offence committed by him. At the same
time, PW1 (complainant) has to be compensated for the loss on account of the
dishonour of the Ext P2 cheque. It can be made by the payment of cheque
amount with interest at a reasonable rate. The case in hand is seen filed in the
year 2016. 9 years have elapsed since then. Hence I find it reasonable to
 15

impose 6 % interest for 9 years over the principal amount to be paid to the
complainant covered under Ext P2 cheque. The interest at the rate of 6 % for
the cheque amount of Rs. 2,00,000/- (Rupees Two Lakhs Only) for a period of
9 years will be Rs.1,08,000/- (Rupees One Lakh Bight Thousand Only). Then
the total amount would be Rs.3,08,000/- (Rupees Three Lakhs Bight Thousand
Only). This court has the power to impose a fine which may extend to twice
the amount of cheque under Section 138 of the Negotiable Instruments Act.
Hence the amount of Rs. 3,08,000/- (Rupees Three Lakhs Eight Thousand
Only) is. directed to be paid by the accused to the PW1 (complainant) as
compensation.

23. In the result, the accused is sentenced to undergo simple imprisonment for a
period of one year and to pay a fine of Rs.3,08,000/- (Rupees Three Lakhs
Eight Thousand Only) and in default of payment of fine the accused shall un-
dergo simple imprisonment for a period of ‘three months. If the fine amount is
realised, it shall be given to the PW1 (complainant) as compensation under
Section 357(3) of the Code of Criminal Procedure.

(Dictated to the Confidential Assistant, transcribed and typed by her, corrected and
‘pronounced by me, in open court, on this the 14% day of February 2025).

sd

Judicial Magistrate of the First Class— IIT
‘Thiruvananthapuram
APPENDIX
, for Complainant:

PW1 —_: Hridayamony, complainant examined on 28.05.22

Exhibits for Complainant:

PL : Photocopy of gold loan token dated 13.10.15 proved by PWL

p2 Cheque bearing No. 000009 dated 01.02.16 proved by PW1

P3, + Dishonour memo dated 16.02.16 proved by PW1

P4 + Advocate notice dated 27.02.16 proved by PW1

P5 + Postal Receipt dated 27.02.16 proved by PWIL

P6 : Acknowledgment card dated 02.03.16 proved by PW1
 Witness for Defence:

DWI _: Sajeesh examined on 03.12.22

DW2 _: Harikumar.K examined on 03.12.22

Exhibit for Defence:

DL Statement of account dated 15.11.22 proved by DW1

D2 Pass Book ( Bank of Baroda) dated 18.07.13 proved by DW1

Judicial Magistrate of the First Class— 111
‘Thiruvananthapuram
