 IN THE COURT OF THE JUDICIAL I CLASS MAGISTRATE-Y,
(SPECIAL COURT FOR MARKLIST CASES), THIRUVANANTHAPURAM.
Present:-Smt. Aswathy. S, Judicial First Class Magistrate-V,
‘Thiruvananthapuram.

Saturday the 28* day of December, 2024/ 7 Pousha, 1946.

Petitioners/Accused iju.B, aged 36 years, S/o. Babu, Varuvilakathy House,

Mukkola, Maruthoor Ward, Vattappara Village.

(By Advocate Sri. Pradeep.)

Counter petitioner State of Kerala represented by the Sub Inspector of
Police, Mannanthala Police Station.

(By Assistant Public Prosecutor)
Offence + Ufss. 332(c), 296(b), 110, 118(1) and 351(3) of BNS.
Order + Dismissed.

‘This petition having been heard today the court passed the following:-

ORDER
1. This is the petition filed wis. 480 of BNSS 2023 by the petitioner / accused in
Crime No. 1347/2024 of Mannanthala Police Station.

2. Offence alleged against the petitioner / accused is U/ss. 332(c), 296(b), 110,
118(1) and 351(3) of BNS.

3. The prosecution case in brief as follows:- Due to the previous enmity, on
25.12.2024, at 21.00 hours, the accused trespassed into the drawing room of
the house of informant, Meenamkanivila Veedu, Mukkolakkal, Kallayam PO
and by uttering obscene words aimed his head with a flower pot, it was fell on
the left side of his head, when he tried to ward off, and resulted injury there. It
is alleged that the accused hit on the back of the informant with the broken

piece of flower pot. ‘Thus the accused has committed offences punishable w/ss.
 332(c), 296(b), 110, 118(1) and 351(3) of BNS.

Petitioner/accused was arrested and produced before this court on 26.12.2024.
‘Since then he has been in judicial custody. ‘Thus this petition.

A report was called for from SHO, Mannanthala police station. Report filed by
the SHO Mannanthala Police Station dated 27.12.2024 stating that the investi-
gation in the above case is going on and if accused is enlarged on bail he may

flee from justice and also there is a chance that the evidence will be tampered.

Heard both sides. The following point has arisen for consideration ?

Is the petitioner /accused entitled to be released on bail ?

Point :- The learned counsel for the petitioner / accused submitted that the al-
legations of prosecution is false. The learned counsel submitted that the matter
has been settled between the informant and the accused/ The learned counsel
was also submitted that, the ingredients of Sec. 110 is not attracted in the facts

of the case.

‘The learned Assistant Public Prosecutor argued that the offences alleged
against the accused is serious in nature and he has serious similar criminal an-
tecedents. Since the investigation is at the initial stage, and his custody is re-
quired hence this application has to be rejected.

‘The Honourable Apex Court in B. Chidambaram v. Directorate of Enforce-
‘ment 2020 AIR SC 1699 held that "The jurisdiction to grant bail has to be
exercised on the basis of the well - settled principles having regard to the
facts and circumstances of each case. The following factors are to be taken
into consideration while considering an application for bail: - () the nature
 3

of accusation and the severity of the punishment in the case of conviction
and the nature of materials relied upon by the prosecution; (ii) reasonable
apprehension of tampering with the witnesses or apprehension of threat to
the complainant or the witnesses; (i

reasonable possibility of securing the
presence of the accused at the time of trial or the likelihood of his abscon-
dence;

iv) character behaviour and standing of the accused and the circum-
stances which are peculiar to the accused; (v) larger interest of the public or
the State and similar other considerations (vide Prahlad Singh Bhati v. NCT,
Delhi and another 2001 (4) SCC 280. There is no hard and fast rule regard-
{ng grant or refusal to grant bail. Each case has to be considered on the facts

and circumstances of each case and on its own merits.

10. [have heard contentions of both parties and perused the records of prosecution.
While analysing to the fact of the case, it can be seen that the allegations lev-
elled against the accused is serious in nature, the investigation is at the initial
stage and custody of the accused is required for effective investigation. Hence
considering the facts and circumstances of the case, stage of investigation, na-
ture of the allegations made against the accused and in the light of judgments
of Honourable Apex Court this court is of the view that further detention of the
accused is required and the accused is not entitled to be released on bail at this
stage. Hence, Iam not inclined to allow the bail application .

Asa result, this bail application is dismissed .

Dictated t0 the Confidential Assistant, transcribed and typed by her, corrected by me and
pronounced by me in open court on this the 28" day of December, 2024
Sd/-
Judicial First Class Magistrate-V,
‘Thiruvananthapuram.
imrue copy!
