 IN THE COURT OF THE CHIEF JUDICIAL MAGISTRATE,
THIRUVANANTHAPURAM
Present:
SUJAKM
CHIEF JUDICIAL MAGISTRATE, THIRUVANANTHAPURAM

Eriday, the 28th day of February, 2025.
M.C. No.182/2025

Petitioner Kerala State Co-operative Bank Ltd., (Kerala Bank)

(Earstwhile the Thiruvananthapruam District Co-operative

Bank Ltd.) Thiruvananthapuram, Regional Office, East Fort,

Fort P.O, PIN 695023. The Authorised Officer /The Area

Manager, Beena.S Dio Sasidharan, aged 55, Thiruvathira,
‘Thozhukkal, Neyyattinkara P.O, Thiruvananthapuram,

(By AdvSri.Shibumon M.S)

Respondents 1 Baburajan aged 61 years, S/o Sathyanesan Nadar,
‘Thunduvila Veedu, Pozhiyoor P.O, Karode, Neyyattinkara.

2 Chandrika, aged 55 years, D/o Devaki, Thunduvila Veedu,
Pozhiyoor P.O, Karode, Neyyattinkara.

ORDER

This petition was filed under section 14 of the Securitization
and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security
Interest Act, 2002 (hereinafter referred to as “Act”) for taking
possession of the secured asset which is the scheduled property.

2. The pe
ions of the Kerala Co-operative Societies Act, 1969. It is

joner is a Co-operative bank, governed by the

pro
represented by its authorized officer. The petitioner is the secured
creditor and the respondents are the secured debtors. ‘The respondents
created a security interest by virtue of a security agreement in respect
of the scheduled property ie., the secured asset in favour of the

petitioner in respect of the financial assistance that they availed from
 the petitioner. The respondents committed default in repaying the loan.
Therefore the account was classified as Non Performing Asset on
30/10/2016. On 20/05/2023, the petitioner given a demand notice
w/s.13(2) of the Act to the respondents calling upon them to repay the
Joan amount in full within 60 days. The notice was served on the
respondents. Even after the notice w/s.13(2) of the Act, they did not pay
the loan amount within the statutory period. So, the petitioner filed this
petition for taking possession of the secured asset for realization of the
amount due to the petitioner's bank.

3. The authorized Officer of the petitioner filed affidavit in
compliance of Sec.14 of the Act. The affidavit and the document
produced by the petitioner show that the respondents created a
security interest in respect of the secured asset in favour of the
petitioner at the time of availing loan from the petitioner and failed to
repay the amount even after the receipt of statutory notice ws.13(2) of
the Act, Hence I find that the petitioner is entitled for possession of
the secured asset which is the scheduled property through the
proceedings of this court.

In the result, the petition is allowed as follows:

i. Advocate Sabarinath P.G (K/2769/2022) is appointed as
the commissioner to take possession of the scheduled property with due
notice to the respondents and hand it over to the petitioner on proper
acknowledgment. The petitioner shall pay a batta of Rs.5500/- to the
commissioner within 15 days from today and and pay Rs.1500/- on filing
report by the commissioner.

ii, The pe o
the schedule of secured asset to the advocate commissioner for executing
the order.

mner shall provide a copy of the petition inclu
 iii, The Station House Officer, Pozhiyoor Police Station, shall
give necessary assistance to the commissioner if so required for
executing the order.

iv. The Advocate commissioner is permitted to break open the
premises if required so.

v. The commissioner is directed to prepare an inventory in
triplicate to be attested by two respectable witnesses as regards the
execution of this order and in taking possession of the scheduled
property and copies thereof shall be given to the petitioner as well as
the respondents on proper acknowledgment. The remaining one copy
shall be filed along with the commissioner's report before the court.

vi. The commissioner shall execute the order within 60 days
from the date of payment of first part of the batta as directed in
clause (i).

ictated to the Confidential Assistant, transcribed and typed by her, corrected and
pronounced by me in open court on this the 28th day of February, 2025)

CHIEF JUDICIAL MAGISTRATE,
THIRUVANANTHAPURAM
