 IN THE COURT OF JUDICIAL MAGISTRATE OF THE FIRST CLASS - Il
‘THIRUVANANTHAPURAM

Present: Sri, Vinod Babu M.U
Judicial Magistrate of the First Class- IIT

‘Tuesday, the 18" day of February, 2025

CMP No. 6242025 in CC. 6352024 ("1 Police Station Cri
742/2024)

Petitioner : Francis Reji, aged 33 years, S/o RajuJas Villa,
Kadinamkulam, Puthukkurichi P.O, Kadinamkulam,
‘Thiruvananthapuram.

(By Adv. Smt. Deepa Satheesh)

Counter Petitioner : State represented by the Sub Inspector of Police,
‘Thampanoor Police Station.

(By Assistant Public Prosecutor)
Order : Allowed
This petition came up for hearing today and the court on the same day

delivered the following:-
ORDER

1. This is an application filed by the petitioner under section 497 of the
Bharatiya Nagarik Suraksha Sanhita for releasing the High Beem Pillar Plate
made of iron metal in gray colour, 01.18 cm length and 45 cm width -1 (item
no. 3 ), High Beem Pillar Plate made of iron metal in gray colour, 77 cm
length and 57 cm width -1 (item no. 4) and High Beem Pillar Plate made of
iron metal in gray colour, 53 cm length and 50 cm width -3 (item no. 5)

into the interim custody of the petitioner.

2, The prosecution case is that the High Beem Pillar plate was involved in
‘Thampanoor Police Station Crime No,742/2024 registered by Station House
Officer of Thampanoor Police for offences under Sections 329(3),303(2)
and 3(5) of the Bharatiya Nyaya Sanhita,
 3. The petitioner prays that he is the owner of the High Beem Pillar plates
which was seized by the Thampanoor Police Station. The above High Beem
Pillar plates were now kept in the court. If it remains there, it will gets

damages and petitioner will be put to great hardship. Hence, this petition.

4, Heard the learned counsel for the petitioner and leamed Assistant Public

Prosecutor.

On the perusal of report filed by Sub Inspector of Police, Thampanoor Police
Station and petition filed by petitioner, I am prima facie satisfied that, the

petitioner is the owner of the High Beem Pillar plates and he is entitled to
the immediate possession of same. The High Beem Pillar plates were seized
by the Thampanoor Police in Crime No. 742/2024 and were produced before
this court. Tt was taken as file as item nos. 3 to 5 in T No.231/2024 and was
produced before this cour.

6. As per the decision of Honourable Supreme Court in Sundarbhai Ambalal
Desai_v. State of Gujarath reported in AIR 2003 SC 638, wherein the
Honourable Supreme Court has directed that, the power under section 451
CLPCC should be expeditiously. It was further held that the owner of the
articles would not suffer because of its remaining unused or by its
misappropriation. The Court of police would not be required to keep the
articles in safe custody. If the proper panchanama before handling over the
possession of articles is prepared, that can be used in evidence instead of its

production before the court during the trial.

7. Considering the submissions of learned counsel for the petitioner and learned
Assistant Public Prosecutor on hearing and on perusal of prosecution records,
this court is of the opinion that the High Beem Pillar plates remains unused
and kept in this court for a long period it may cause damage to the said
articles and the petitioner will be put to great hardship. Moreover as per the
 decision of Honourable Supreme Court in Sunder Bhai Ambalal Desai
y.State of Gujarath, it held that the power under section 451 Cr.PC should be
exercised expeditiously. Hence, 1 am allowing this petition and petitioner is

given interim custody of the above articles on following condi

1. ‘The petitioner shall execute a bond of Rs. 10,000/- (Rupees Ten Thousand

only) with two solvent sureties of like sum,

2. The petitioner shall take the photographs of the High Beem Pillar plates.
(item nos. 3 10 5 in. T No.231/2024) in all angles and duly attest the same

by petitioner and learned counsel for the petitioner and prepare a proper

panchanama of the same,

3. The petitioner shall produce the High Beem Pillar plates (item nos. 3 to 5
in T No.231/2024) before the court as and when required by this court,
(Dictated tothe Confidential Assistant, transcribed and typed by her corrected and pronounced
by me, in open court on this the 18" day of February 2025.)
Sd/-

Judicial Magistrate of the I Class-11
‘Thiruvananthapuram
