 IN THE COURT OF THE CHIEF JUDICIAL MAGISTRATE,
‘THIRUVANANTHAPURAM
Present:
SUJAK.M
CHIEF JUDICIAL MAGISTRATE, THIRUVANANTHAPURAM
Friday, the 28th day of February, 2025.
MC. No.1273/2024
Petitioner Kerala State Co-operative Bank Ltd., Thiruvananthapuram,

represented by its Authorized Officer.
(By AdvSri.S.Ranjith Kumar and Sreena L.K)

Respondents 1 Kunjumani P, aged 66 years, S/o. Poulose, residing at Divya
Bhavan, Thottumukku, Vithura P.O, Nedumangadu,

2 Sobhana, aged 60 years, D/o. Nesamma, residing at Divya
Bhavan, Thottumukku, Vithura P.O, Nedumangadu.

ORDER

‘This petition was filed under section 14 of the Securitization and
Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest
Act, 2002 (hereinafter referred to as “Act”) for taking possession of the
secured asset which is the scheduled property.

2. The petitioner is a Co-operative Bank institution governed by
the provisions of the Kerala Co-operative Societies Act, 1969. It is
represented by its authorized officer. The petitioner is the secured creditor
and the respondents are the secured debtors. The respondents created a
security interest by virtue of a security agreement in respect of the
scheduled property ie., the secured asset in favour of the petitioner in
respect of the financial assistance that they availed from the petitioner. The
respondents committed default in repaying the loan, ‘Therefore the account
was classified as Non Performing Asset. On 29/07/2016, the petitioner
issued a demand notice w/s.13(2) of the Act to the respondents calling upon
 2

them to repay the loan amount in full within 60 days. The notice was duly
served on the respondents, Even after the notice ws.13(2) of the Act, they did
not pay the loan amount within the statutory period. So, the petitioner filed
this petition for taking possession of the secured asset for realization of the
amount due to the petitioner's bank.

3. The authorized Officer of the petitioner filed affidavit in
compliance of Sec.14 of the Act. The affidavit and the documents produced
by the petitioner show that the respondents have created a security interest
in respect of the secured asset in favour of the petitioner at the time of
availing loan from the petitioner and they failed to repay the amount even
after the receipt of statutory notice w/s.13(2) of the Act. Hence I find that
the petitioner is entitled for possession of the secured asset which is the
scheduled property through the proceedings of this court,

In the result, the petition is allowed as follows:~

i, Advocate Neena R.S (K/2770/2023) is appointed as the commissioner to
take possession of the scheduled property from the respondents with due
notice to them and hand it over to the petitioner on proper
acknowledgment. The petitioner shall pay a batta of Rs.5500/- to the
commissioner within 15 days from today and and pay Rs.1500/- on filing
report by the commissioner.

ii, The petitioner shall provide a copy of the petition including the schedule
of secured asset to the advocate commissioner for executing the order.

iii, The Station House Officer, Vithura Police Station, shall give necessary
assistance to the commissioner if so required for executing the order.

iv. The Advocate commissioner is permitted to break open the premises if
required so.

v. The commissioner is directed to prepare an inventory in triplicate to
be attested by two respectable witnesses as regards the execution of
this order and in taking possession of the scheduled property and
 3

copies thereof shall be given to the petitioner as well as the
respondents on proper acknowledgment. The remaining one copy
shall be filed along with the commissioner's report before the court.

vi. The commissioner shall execute the order within 60 days from the
date of payment of first part of the batta as directed in clause (i).

Cictated to the Confidential Assistant, transcribed and typed by her, corrected
and pronounced by me in open court on this the 28th day of February, 2025)

CHIEF JUDICIAL MAGISTRATE,
THIRUVANANTHAPURAM
