 IN THE COURT OF JUDICIAL MAGISTRATE OF THE FIRST CLASS- III
THIRUVANANTHAPURAM

Present: Sri. Vinod Babu M.U
Judicial Magistrate of the First Class 111

‘Wednesday, the 12" day of February, 2025 _
CC.No. 1049/2018

Complainant + State represented by the Excise Inspector, Excise Circle
Office, Thiruvananthapuram (NDPS Crime 15/2017).
(By Asst. Public Prosecutor)

Accused Sanal Kumar, aged 39 years, S/o Sekharan, Flat No. 683,
TC. 28/1921, —Rajaji_ Nagar, —Thycaud village,

‘Thiruvananthapuram taluk.
(By Adv. Sri. Kariyam M. Santhoshkumar)

Offences + U/Ss. 20(b)(ii)A and 22(a) of the NDPS Act.

Order : The accused is convicted w/s. 253 (2) of CrPC and
sentenced to fine of Rs. 10,000/- for the offence ws. 20(b)
(ii) A of NDPS and in default of payment of fine undergo
simple imprisonment for three months and sentenced to fine
of Rs, 10,000/- for the offence under Section 22 (a) of
NDPS Act and in default of payment of fine he shall
undergo simple imprisonment for three months. ‘The
accused shall undergo the imprisonment default of payment
of fine in consecutive manner one after another and the
sentence for imprisonment of fine punished under the said
provisions in this case shall commence at the expiration of
the imprisonment to which he has been previously
sentenced in any other case on the record of jail authorities.

The accused shall not be entitled to set off in this case for
the sentence in default of payment of fine under Section
468 of Bharatiya Nagarik Suraksha Sanhita, 2023.

Heard, perused the records and passed the following:
 2

JUDGMENT

This case has arisen on a final report filed by the Excise Inspector, Excise
Circle Office, Thiruvananthapuram in NDPS crime 15/2017 alleging the
commission of offences against the accused under Sections 20(b)(ii)A and
-22(a) of the NDPS Act.

‘The prosecution case, in brie

as follows:- On 25.10.2017 at 06.15 pm in
front of Om Sivasakthi Sree Ayiravalli ‘Thampuran temple, Thycaud village,
‘Thiruvananthapuram taluk accused was found in possession of 50 gms of
Ganja and 3 gms of Nitroson tablets for illicit sale. ‘Thereby the accused is
alleged to have committed the offence punishable under Sections 20(b)(ii)A
‘and 22(a) of the NDPS Act.

On the submission of the final report, the case was taken on file as
CC 10492018.

Accused is produced . Copies of all relevant prosecution records were
furnished to him.

Heard the learned Assistant Public Prosecutor and the leamed counsel for the
accused.

‘The points that arise for determination are as follows:-

1 Did the accused on 25.10.2017 at 06.15 pm in front of Om
Sivasakthi Sree Ayiravalli Thampuran temple, Thycaud village,
Thiruvananthapuram taluk alleged to have in possession of 50
gms of ganja in contravention to the provision of of the Narcotic
Drugs and Psychotropic Substances Act and thus alleged to have
committed the offence w/s.20(b)(ii) of the NDPS Act ?

2 Did the accused on 25.10.2017 at 06.15 pm in front of Om
Sivasakthi Sree Ayiravalli Thampuran temple, Thycaud village,
‘Thiruvananthapuram taluk alleged to have in possession of small
quantity of 3 gms Nitroson tablets in contravention to the
 3
provision of of the Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances
Act and thus alleged to have committed the offence wis.22(a) of
the NDPS Act ?

3 If the accused is found guilty, what is the order as to sentence?

7. In this case, the accused produced before me who is i
connection with CC, 1049/2018. The accused was released on bail in this case
at the crime stage. Today (12.02.2025) when the accused is produced before

judicial custody in

me he was represented by the counsel. The learned counsel for the accused
submitted that the accused is ready to plead guilty. I have conducted the
hearing of charge and framed charge against the accused. I have read over the
charge against the accused and appraised him about the implication and
consequence of pleading guilty. I have given sufficient reflex of time to think
about it and followed the guidelines of Hon’ble High Court of Kerala in
Razeena Babu V. State of Kerala. Then also the accused stick on plead
guilty. Hence I read over the charge to the accused. ‘The accused understood it
and pleaded guilty for the offences read over to him w/s20(b)(ii)A and 22(a) of
the NDPS Act. I have recorded the plea in the words as stated by the accused.
‘Then I considered the gravity and nature of the accusation against the accused.
‘The offences ws. 20(b)(ii)A and 22(a) of the NDPS Act are very grave and
serious in nature, Hence considering the nature of the accusation, gravity of
offence, circumstances which leads to the commission of offence, age of the
offendor, family background of the offendor, I am of the opinion that the
accused shall not be sentence to maximum punishment. But adequate
punishment must be given to compensate the nature of offence committed by
the accused.

8 Inthe result, the accused is com

ted w/s, 253 (2) of Cr.PC and sentenced to
 4

fine of Rs. 10,000/- for the offence u/s. 20(b) (ii) A of NDPS and in default of
payment of fine undergo simple imprisonment for three months and sentenced
to fine of Rs. 10,000/- for the offence under Section 22 (a) of NDPS Act and
in default of payment of fine he shall undergo simple imprisonment for three
months. The accused shall undergo the imprisonment default of payment of

fine in consecutive manner one after another and the sentence for imprisonment

of fine punished under the said provisions in this case shall commence at the
expiration ofthe imprisonment to which he has been previously sentenced in
any other case on the record of jail authorities.

‘The accused shall not be entitled to set off in this case for the sentence in
default of payment of fine under Section 468 of Bharatiya Nagarik Suraksha

Sanhita, 2023.

(Dictated to the Confidential Assistant, transcribed and typed by her, corrected and
‘pronounced by me, in open court, on this the 12° day of February 2025.)

Sd-
Judicial Magistrate of the T Class-IIT
‘Thiruvananthapuram
