 IN THE COURT OF THE JUDICIAL I CLASS MAGISTRATE- V,
(SPECIAL COURT FOR MARK LIST CASES)
THIRUVANANTHAPURAM
Present:-Smt. Aswathy. S, Judicial First Class Magistrate-V,
‘Thiruvananthapuram,

Friday the 31" day of January, 2025,/ 11" Magha, 1946,
CC. 1354/2019

Complainant = State-represented by the Sub Inspector of Police, Thumba Police
Station in Crime No. 120/98.

(By Assistant Public Prosecutor)

Accused Raju, S/o. Rakhavan, aged 56 years, Vilayil House, Near
Kulathoor Medanada, Vaikkalathu Muri, Attipra Village.

(By Advocate Sri. B. Sakthidharan Nair)

Offence punishable under section 309 of Indian Penal Code,
1860.

+ Not guilty
+ Not guilty

Sentence/Order : Accused is found not guilty of offence punishable under section
309 of Indian Penal Code, 1860 and he acquitted of the said
offence under section 255(1) Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973.

Description of accused

Name Father’sname Age Residence Taluk
Raju Rakhavan 56 Attipra Village Thiruvananthapuram
DATE OF
Occurrence |Report of | Apprehension Period of detention Released Commencem

Complaint of accused undergone during on bail_entof trial
investigation inquiry
or trial for the
purpose of S. 428
CrP
17.12.1998 17.12.1998 | 02.11.2002 02.11.2002 02.11.2002 02.11.2002
‘Commencement of | Close of rial | Sentence or order] Explanation for
evidence delay
28.11.2002 30.01.2025, 31.01.2025 | No delay

This case having been finally heard today, the court delivered the following:
 2081

JUDGMENT

1. Accused stands trial for offence punishable under section 309 of Indian Penal
Code, 1860.

2. Prosecution case in brief is as follows:- On 17.12.1998 at 8 pm in execution
of warrant order of the honourable second additional district court ,the
accused in the above case had been arrested by the police and taken to the

police station ,when the documents necessary to conduct his medical
‘examination was preparing the accused himself hit his head against the wall
and thereby attempted to commit suicide .Thus accused has committed offence
punishable under section 309 of Indian Penal Code, 1860.

3. Final report was filed before this court by the Sub Inspector of police Thumba
police station before the Hon'ble Judicial First Class Magistrate Court-IL,
Thiruvananthapuram and the case was taken on file as ST. 4591/99.
‘Cognizance was taken for the offence punishable under section 309 of Indian
Penal Code, 1860 against the accused . Thereafter, the accused went
absconding and the case was transferred to the Long pending register as LP.No.
67/2004, Later, the accused was arrested and produced before the court and
‘case against him was refiled as CC. 1572/2017. Thereafter, it was transferred
to this court, in pursuance of the order of the Hon'ble Chief Judicial Magistrate,
Thiruvananthapuram, the case was refiled as CC. 1354/2019.

4, On appearance of the accused, he was enlarged on bail on 02.11.2004. Copies
of all relevant prosecution records were furnished to him under section 207
Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973. Charge was framed for offence punishable

under section 309 of Indian Penal Code, 1860, read over and explained to the
 30rn

accused . He pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.

5. On the side of prosecution, PW1 to PWS were examined, and Ext. P2 wound
certificate was marked.

6. On completion of the prosecution evidence, the accused was examined under
section 313(1)(b) of Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973, during which he
denied all the incriminating circumstances appearing in the prosecution
evidence against him and added that he is innocent of the allegations levelled
against him. Defence put by the accused during his examination w/s.313
(Db) of Code of Criminal Procedure 1973:

On 5.12.1998 he was asked by the Sub Inspector of police to get into the jeep
and further asked him about his failure to appear in a sessions case as
‘witness .He stated that he was taken to the poli
he will set free by 11.00 pm ,there PW2 to PW4 asked him to sit in the floor
and showered filthy words against him and physically manhandled him They

station on the assurance that

hit his head against the table resulting in injury According to him the above
case is falsely registered against him .
After the examination of the accused ws.313(1)(b) of CrPC , the case was

posted for defence evidence. Ajayakumar was exar

ed as DWI for proving
the defence case.
8, Heard both sides.

1, Whether on 17.12.1998 at 8 pm when the accused in the above case had
been arrested by the police and taken to the police station he had
attempted to commit suicide by hitting his head against the wall and
thereby the accused committed offence punishable under section 309 of
Indian Penal Code, 1860?

2. If the accused is found guilty? What is the order of the sentence?
 4oru

10.Point No.1 ;:- Prosecution case is that the accused has committed offence
punishable under section 309 of Indian Penal Code, 1860.

u1.Evidence_adduced_by the prosecution_:PW1 Ramachandran was the
additional sub inspector of police during 7.12.1998.He deposed that on that
alleged day of incident he had accompanied the sub inspector of police to
‘execute warrant in a session’s case and found the accused near Kulathoor
Kolathukara temple and they arrested the accused .According to him at the
time of arresting him he was in a drunken state He further deposed that while

the report for conducting his medical exar

jnation was preparing the accused
ide and suddenly he had hit his

threatened by saying that he will commit

head against the window ,thereafter he was taken to hospital .

12,PW2 Vijayakumar was the CPO in Thumba police station during the alleged
time of incident .He deposed that while doing the police duty ,CW6 found the

accused standing near Kolathukara temple and arrested him since there was a

‘warrant to arrest him According to for

while the report for sending
medical examination was preparing he suddenly hit his head against the

window and sustained injury .Thereafter he was taken to the hospital.

13.PW3 Sudarsanan deposed that while he was doing duty along with CW6 ,PW1
and PW2, CW6 arrested the accused in execution of a warrant .He further
deposed that when the accused was taken to the police station the accused hit

his head against the window and sustained on injury .

14,PW4 Najumudeen deposed that the accused was brought to the police station
and while the report for conducting his medical examination was preparing he
 Sor

had hit his head against the wall resulting in injury .

15.PWS Dr.Y.A.Ajith was the assistant surgeon in General
Hospital ,Thiruvananthapuram, He deposed that as per the requisition of sub
inspector of police he had examined the accused and on examination he found
multiple laceration in the scalp .He further admitted his signature in the wound

certificate which was marked as Ext P2.

16. Evidence adduced by the defence: Ajayakumar was examined as DW1 .He
deposed in the examination in chief, that on 17.2.1998 while he was talking to
his friends near Kolathukara Temple ,a police van came there and the accused
was taken to police station by them . In order to ascertain the reason for the
arrest he followed them to the police station and when he looked through the
window he saw that the accused was manhandled by 4-5 police officers,
thereafter one of them forcefully poured a liquid on his mouth .He further
deposed that CW6 called him and Pramod to his cabin and asked to take the
accused {0 hospital ,the accused then told him that he will go to hospital only
after seeing the Circle Inspector of police who reached there after some
time .According to him the police taken the accused to hospital in a private
vehicle and admitted in the hospital .

175 \issions mi ne | fe 2
‘The learned counsel for the accused submitted that the accused had taken to the
police station and he was subjected to custodial torture .On the fear that the
accused will complain against the police party they cooked presebt story and
lodged FIR against him .According to the leamed counsel ,the accused is
innocent of the allegations made against him by the prosecution .

18, Submissions made by the Jearned APP: The learned APP submitted that
the offence alleged against the accused is serious in nature and the evidence of
 eon

prosecution is sufficient to prove his guilt -Thus the accused is not entitled to

get an acquittal .

19. Evaluation of evidence

309 of Indian Penal Code provides that , Attempt to commit suicide —
‘Whoever attempts to commit suicide and does any act towards the commission
of such offence, shall he punished with simple imprisonment for a term which

‘may extend to one year or with fine, or with both.

20. The prosecution has to prove that the accused has attempted to commit
ide .PW1 to PW3 were with CW6 on the alleged day and the accused was
taken to the police station by PWI to PW3 and CW .PWI in the cross

‘examination deposed that the accused was in the cabin of Sub Inspector which

st

share same roof with his cabin and in pursuance of the incident ,higher officials
‘were not visited the police station .PW1 and PW3 admitted the presence of
police party from AR camp in the police station. In the cross examination
PW3 deposed that he as hearsay knowledge about the existence of warrant
against the accused ,according to him he heard the hue and cry of the accused
from the cabin .PW4 was also had hearsay knowledge abut the existence of
‘warrant against the accused .According to PW1, PW3 and PW4 the incident
had happened with in the cabin of CW6 ,and all of them were outside of the

cabin -PW 4 stated in the cross examination that @ymlow agav on gotta
Yoana am908 goros" ayoamatarorm and PW 3 stated that ayonow age ong

9S amiinacat aia anocd asomilm aJoont prmwlam . From the

evidence of PW1,PW3 and PW4 itself it can be seen that they have not
witnessed the incident -They have heard only the hue and cry of the accused
person.
 7011
21. PWS Dr. ¥. A. Ajith was the Assistant Surgeon in General Hospital
‘Thiruvananthapuram , during the alleged period of incident -The Ext P2
certificate was issued by him ,in which multiple lacerations on the scalp were

noted .In the Ext P2 wound certificate the reason for the allegation is stated as

assault by the police -The prosecution allegation was that the accused has
consumed alcohol on that particular day But in the Ext P2 wound
certificate ,PWS had not noted any kind of smell of alcohol or the presence of
alcohol in his body .In the cross examination of DW1 also he stated that he had
seen that the accused was being assaulted by police officers and when he talk
to the accused he had no smell of alcohol on his body and he denied that the
accused himself hit his head to the window frame of the police station and

caused harm himself .

22.1n order to attract the offence w/s.309 of Indian Penal Code the following

essential ingredients have to be proved by the prosecution :

+ The accused did some act which amounts to an attempt .
+ The aforesaid attempt was directed towards the commission of suicide

+ that his attempt aforesaid did not succeed .

The allegation of the prosecution is that the accused attempted to
commit suicide by hitting his head to the window .The prosecution has
not proved that the injury susatined by the accused may directed to death
.if not properly cared .As per the Ext P2 whether the accused was
admitted or not is also not stated ,and not stated in the examination in

chief by PWS .Apart from these ,CW6 who was the investigating officer
 sor
and who is having direct knowledge about the incident of the above

ccase is not at all examined by the prosecution .

23, The Mental Healthcare Act 2017 has created a “presumption of
severe stress in cases of attempt to commit suicide". $.115(1) provides

thus:

"11S. Presumption of severe stress in case of attempt to commit suicide.-
(1) Notwithstanding anything contained in S.309 of the Indian Penal
Code (45 of 1860) any person who attempts to commit suicide shall be
presumed, unless proved otherwise, to have severe stress and shall not
be tried and punished under the said Code.” In Simi C.N y. State of
Kerala 2022(3)KHC 346 the honourable apex court observed that
Under, the Act also mandates the Government to provide care, treatment
and rehabilitation to a person, having severe stress and who attempted to
commit suicide, to reduce the risk of recurrence. $.115 begins with a
non-obstante provision, specifically with reference to $.309 of the Penal
Code. It mandates (unless the contrary is proved by the prosecution) that
a person who attempts to commit suicide is suffering from severe stress.
‘Such a person shall not be tried and punished under the Penal Code.
‘5.115 removes the element of culpability which attaches to an attempt to
‘commit suicide under $.309. It regards a person who attempts suicide as
a victim of circumstances and not an offender, at least in the absence of
proof to the contrary, the burden of which must lie on the prosecution.
5.115 marks a pronounced change in our law about how society must

treat and attempt to commit suicide. It seeks to align Indian law with
 gor
emerging knowledge on suicide, by treating a person who attempts
suicide being in need of care, treatment and rehabilitation rather than

penal sanctions."

24, The learned counsel for the accused has placed reliance on the
judgment of Honourable apex court XXX v. State of Kerala (WP(C)
No. 277794 of 2020 dated 21.10.2024 has produced in which the
retrospective effect of S.115 of mental Health Act has been examined by
the Honourable apex court and held that since the legislation is a

beneficial one it has retrospective operation .

25. Coming to the facts of the case ,the offence alleged against the
accused alleged to have happened within the four walls of the chamber
of SI of police ,in fact what was happened within the chamber was not
witnessed by any one of the prosecution witnesses .CW6 was the
competent person to depose so but he was not examined by the
prosecution .He is the investigating officer of the above case ,and he was
not examined by the prosecution . As per the prosecution case, the
accused was arrested in execution of a warrant , whereas the details of
‘warrant or any case _number had not stated any where in the prosecution

case.

26. On analysing the evidence and facts of the case ,it can be seen that

there is no evidence to prove that the accused person has attempted to

commit suicide. Hence this point is found against the prosecution.
 10 0f11

27. Boint No.2 := Upon the finding in point No.1, the accused is found not
{guilty of offence punishable under section 309 of Indian Penal Code, 1860 and
he is acquitted of the said offence under section 255(1) Code of Criminal
Procedure, 1973. His bail bond stands cancelled and he is set at liberty

‘No material objects produced in this case.

[Dictated to the Confidential Assistant, transcribed and typed by her, corrected by
‘me and pronounced in the open court on this the 31" day of January, 2025).

Sdl-
Judicial 1 Class Magistrate-V,
‘Thiruvananthapuram,

APPENDIX

FORM 62

ist of Prosecution/Defence /Court Witnesses

(Rule 134 Criminal Rules of Practice, Kerala)
‘A. Prosecution Witness
Whether Eye witness, Police
Rank Name witness, Expert witness, Medical
witness, Other witness
PWi | Ramachandran Bye witness
PW2 | Vijayakumar Bye witness
Pw3 | C.Sudarsanan Bye witness
Pwa | Nujumdheen Bye witness
Pws [Dr V.AAjit Medical witness

B, Defence Witness

Rank | Name Whether Eye witness, Police witness, Expert

DWI | Ajaikumar Bye witness

C. Court Witness - Nil
 oft

List of Prosecution/Defence/Court Exhibits

A, Prosecution Exhibits

SINo.

Exhibit Number

Description

5

it P2

Wound certificate dated 17.12.98 proved by PWS on
21.02.2003,

B. Defence Exhibits - NIL

C. Court Exhibits - NIL

D. Material Objects- NIL

intrue copy!

sd-
Judicial I Class Magistrate-V,
‘Thiruvananthapuram.

