 IN THE COURT OF THE JUDICIAL MAGISTRATE OF THE FIRST CLASS-I

‘THIRUVANANTHAPURAM
Present: Smt. Karthika S Varma

Judicial I Class Magistrate-I, Thiruvananthapuram
‘Thursday, the 30® day of January, 2025

Calendar Case No. 107/2018

(Crime No. 762/2017 of Sreekaryam Police Station)

‘Complainant

State represented by the Sub Inspector,
Sreekaryam Police station in Crime No.
7762/2017
(By Smt. Dr-Ranjana K C, Assistant Public
Prosecutor)

‘Accused

‘Al: Sarala, aged 55 years D/o.Thankamma,
resident of Pottayil Veedu, Kattuvila, Edavakode
ward, Ulloor village

A2: Geetha, aged 53 years, D/o.Thankamma,
resident of Pottayil Veedu, Kattuvila, Edavakode
ward, Ulloor village

A: Shobhana, aged 51 years, D/o.Thankamma,
resident of Pottayil Veedu, Kattuvila, Edavakode
ward, Ulloor village

(By Adv. S Krishnakumar)

Offence

Under Sections 294(b), 5060) riw 34 of the IPC

Plea

Not guilty.

Finding

Not guilty.

‘Sentence

‘The Accused are acquitted under Section 255(1)
of the CrPC of the offences under Sections

294(b), 506(i) r/w 34 of the IPC. Their bail bonds
stand cancelled and they are set at liberty.

Description of the Accused
(Occupatt
'SLNo| Name Father's Name_| on Residence _| Age

 T ‘Sarala ‘Thankamma : Ulloor 35
2 Geetha Thankamma e Ulloor 53

3 Shobhana ‘Thankamma = Ulloor: 31

Dates of
‘Occurrence | Report | Apprehension | Releaseon | Commencement | Close | Sentence
or all of trial
or appearance of or
Complaint tral Onder

‘02.07.2017 | 02.07.2017 | 01.07.2019 | 01.07.2019] 06.01.2022 | 25.01.2028 | 30.01.2025

‘This case finally came up for consideration and hearing on 25.01.2025
‘and this Court on the 30.01.2025 pronounced the followin«
JUDGMENT.

1. This case is instituted upon the Final Report filed by the Sub Inspector of
Police, Sreekaryam Police Station in Crime No. 762/2017 for the offences
punishable under Sections 294(b), 506(i) r/w 34 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860
(hereinafter referred to as the IPC’).

2. The Prosecution allegation in brief is as follows: Due to the animosity
towards the Informant for having lodged complaint against the daughter of the 1"
‘Accused, the Accused persons, in furtherance of their common intention, on
02.07.2017 at 10.30 am at Ulloor Village, on the road in front of the residence of
the Informant showered obscene words on her and criminally intimidated her with
threat to her life. The 1" Accused is alleged to have uttered obscene words to her
‘and criminally intimidated her with injury to her life. ‘Thereby the Accused are
alleged to have committed the above-mentioned offences.

3. The cognizance was taken on the basis of Final Report in respect of the
offences under Sections 294(b), 506(i) r/w 34 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860. On
Issuance of process, the Accused Persons entered appearance before this Court.

 ‘They were enlarged on bail. They were represented by a Counsel of their own
hed to them,
Particulars of offences were read over and explained to them, to which they
pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.

choice. Copies of all relevant Prosecution records were fu

4. From the side of Prosecution CWs 2, 4 and 5 were examined as PW1 to PW3
respectively and Exhibits P1 to Pa were marked. The Prosecution failed to procure
the presence of CW1 and 3, and steps under Section 82 of the Code of Criminal
Procedure (hereinafter referred to as the CrPC) was effected against them. The
Prosecution evidence was closed. The Accused were examined under Section
313(1)(b) of the CrPC. They denied all the incriminating circumstances against
them and claimed innocence. No evidence was adduced by the Defence.

5. Heard both sides and perused the documents. The following points arise for
consideration:

(a) Have the Accused persons, in furtherance of their common intention,
uttered obscene words to PW1 and thereby committed the offence
punishable under section 294 (b)r/w 34 of the IPC as alleged

(b) Have the Accused persons, in furtherance of their common intention,
criminally intimidated PW1 with a threat to her life and thereby committed
offence punishable under Section 506(j) of the IPC as alleged?

() Ifo, what shall be the proper sentence to be awarded?

6. Points (a) and (b): These points are considered together for the sake of
brevity and for avoiding repetition.

PW deposed that she has acquaintance with CW1 for several years and also
with the Accused persons as well. She does not remember the exact date of
incident, but deposed that the same occurred about four to five years back. CW1 is
the sisterinlaw of the husband of the daughter of the 2 Accused. They are
 4

having certain family issues. On the date of incident the Accused persons together
‘got into the house of the Informant and uttered obscene words to her and they
‘were about to hit her. Informant lodged complaint before the Police and she also
gave statement. She was present at the relevant time in the house of the
Informant. It was around 12:30 PM to 01:00 PM. She deposed that the Accused
persons threatened to hit Informant in her house, in case the latter would cause
any problems and the Accused persons hit the Informant with a stick lying therein.

PW2 deposed that he was the Senior Police Officer, Sreekaryam police
station at the relevant period of time. On the basis of Ext P1 FIS, he registered
Exhibit P2 FIR.

PW3, the Investigating Officer deposed that he prepared Exhibit P3 Scene
Mahazar after visiting the place of occurrence, prepared Exhibit P4 Address
Report and thereafter completed the investigation and filed Charge before the
Court.

‘The Learned Counsel for the Accused submits that the injured witness has
not turned up before the Court. The only evidence available is that of the alleged
‘occurrence witness, PW1. PWI has no consistent case and she is not a reliable
witness. She has not deposed what the alleged obscene words were, the nature of
those words and that the same had caused annoyance to her. No evidence
forthcoming to the effect that the alleged threat was made with an intent to cause
alarm and that such an alarm was caused in fact. On specific questions during
cross-examination, PW3 admitted to have ascertained that there were ongoing
disputes between the parties and the same is also reflected from the evidence of
PW1 as well

I have carefully gone through the materials placed on record and
submissions of both the parties. On perusal of the evidence led by the Prosecution
and the materials on record, as rightly pointed out by the Learned Counsel for the
Accused, the injured herself has not mounted the box. The evidence of PW1 would
 reveal that she has even come up with a new case, which in fact, even the
Prosecution has not alleged. PW1 deposed that the Accused persons hit CW1 with
a stick, which is not even an allegation in the Prosecution case. Further she has not
deposed as to the exact words uttered alleged to be obscene, whether the same
was lascivious or so, and whether the same caused annoyance to her. The
ingredients of the alleged offences are not brought forth. There definitely arises a
doubt on the veracity of the evidence of PW1. In the aforesaid circumstances,
taking into account the absence of the injured, it definitely calls for other
corroborative evidence, which is conspicuously absent in the present case. Neither
the ingredients of the alleged offences, nor the involvement of the Accused persons
could be established beyond reasonable doubt by the Prosecution. Thus, this Court
is of the view that the Prosecution has miserably failed to prove the involvement of
this Accused persons in the above Crime beyond reasonable doubt. Hence, Points
(@) and (b) are found in favour of the Accused.

7. Point (c): In light of finding in the foregoing points, this point does not
arise for consideration.

In the result, the Accused persons are found not guilty of having
‘committed the offences punishable under Sections 294(b), 506(i) r/w 34 of the IPC.
‘They are acquitted of the aforesaid offences under Section 255(1) of the CrPC.
‘Their bail bonds stand cancelled and they are set at liberty.

(Dictated to the Confidential Assistant, transcribed and typed by her,
corrected by me and pronounced in open Court on this, the 30” day of January,
2025.)

Judicial Magistrate of I Class -I,
‘Thiruvananthapuram
 6

APPENDIX
A: Prosecution witness

Rank Name Whether Eye witness,
Police witness, Expert
witness, Medical

witness, Other witness
PwWi ‘Aparna C(CW2) ‘Occurrence witness
Pw2 Vijikumar K(CW4) Police Witness

wa ‘Anoop Krishnan (CW5) Police witness

B: Defence witness

Rank Name Whether Eye witness,
Police witness, Expert
witness, Medical
witness, Other witness,

Nil Nil Nil

Rank Name Whether Eye witness,

witness, Other witness:

Nil Nil Nil

List of Prosecution/Defence/Court Exhibits
A. Prosecution Exhibits
 SL.No Exhibit
Number

i Pipw2

2 P2/PW2

3 P3/PW3

4 PA/PW3
SL.No | Exhibit No.

Nil Nil
SL.No | Exhibit No.

Nil Nil
SL.No | Exhibit No.

Nil Ni

Description

First informaton Statement dated 02.07.2017
First Information Report dated 02.07.2017
‘Scene mahazar dated 03.07.2017

‘Address Report dated Nil

B. Defence Exhibits
Description

Nil

©. Court Exhibits
Description
Nil
D. Material Objects
Description

Nil

Judicial First Class Magistrate-I,
‘Thirwvananthapuram.
 