 1

IN THE COURT OF JUDICIAL I CLASS MAGISTRATE-1,
‘THIRUVANANTHAPURAM
Present: Smt. Karthika $ Varma
Judicial I Class Magistrate-I, Thiruvananthapuram.
Dated this the 7" Day of January, 2025.
s1.1937/17

Complainant State represented by the Sub Inspector of Police,
City Traffic Police Station in Crime No: 5223/16.
(By Smt.Dr, Renjana K C, Assistant Public
Prosecutor)

Accused + Venugopalan Nair,aged 53 years, S/o. Nagappan
Nair, resident of Makayeearam veedu, Chencheri
desom, Mannanthala wad, Ulloor

Offences : Under Sections 279, 337 and 338 of the Indian
Penal Code, 1860

Plea + Not Guilty

Finding 2 Not Guilty

Order + Accused is acquitted under Section 255 (1) CrPC

of the offences punishable under Sections 279,
337 and 338 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860. His
bail bond stands cancelled and he is set at

liberty.
Description of the Accused
SIN, Name Father's Name [Occupation | Residence | Age
Venugopalan
1 Nair ‘Nagappan Nair . Ulloor 53
Dates of
Occurren | Complain | Apprehensi | Release | Commenceme | Close of | Sentence
ce t on on bail | ntoftrial | trial or Order
TILI6 [2SAT16 [19.0221 [19.0221 [19022021 | 04.01.25 | 07.01.25

 2

This case having been finally heard on 04.01.2025 and this Court on
07.01.2025 delivered the following: -
JUDGMENT.

1. This is a case instituted upon the Final report filed by Sub Inspector of
Police, City Traffic Police Station in Crime No, 5223/16 for the offences punishable
under Sections 279, 337 and 338 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 (hereinafter
referred to as ‘the IPC’)

2. The prosecution allegation in brief is as follows: Accused was the driver of
the Scooter bearing Registration No. KL -22B 6468. He drove the vehicle from
Pattom to Kesavadasapuram via Pattom-Kesavadasapuram Road rashly, negligently
and in a manner so as to endanger human life and at high speed about 4.45 PM on
14.11.2016, It hit CW1, the Informant while she was crossing the road. Due to its
impact, the Informant fell down on the road and sustained serious injury to her
right leg causing abrasion and contusion, Further she also sustained fracture on
oth bones of her knee. Thus, the Accused is thereby alleged to have committed
the above stated offences.

3. This Court took cognizance on the Final Report in respect of offences under
Sections 279, 337 and 338 of the IPC, On issuance of process, the Accused entered
‘appearance, He was enlarged on bail. He was represented by a Counsel of his own
choice. Copies of all relevant prosecution records were furnished to him. The
particulars of offence under Sections 279, 337, 338 of the IPC were read over and
‘explained to him, to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.

4. From the side of Prosecution, CWs1, 2 and 3 were examined as PWs I to 3
respectively and Exhibit P1 was marked. The remaining witnesses were given up
by the Learned APP as the material witnesses turned hostile to the case of
Prosecution, Since no incriminating circumstances arose from the depositions of
the witnesses, the examination of the Accused under Section 313(1)(b) of the CrPC
‘was dispensed with. No Defence evidence was adduced.
 3

5. Heard both sides and perused relevant documents. The following points
arise for consideration.

(a) Has the Accused driven the aforesaid vehicle rashly, negligently and
in a manner endangering the life of PW1, causing injury to him and thereby
‘committed the offence punishable under Section 279 of the IPC as alleged?

(>) Has the Accused driven the aforesaid vehicle and rashly, negligently
in a manner endangering the life and personal safety of PW1, caused hurt to
him and thereby committed the offence punishable under Section 337 IPC as
alleged?

c. —_Has the Accused by so driving the aforesaid vehicle in the manner
aforesaid caused grievous hurt to PW1 and thereby committed the offence
punishable under Section 338 of the IPC as alleged?

d. If so, what shall be the proper sentence to be awarded?

6. Boints (a) to (c): These points are considered together for the sake of
brevity and to avoid repetition,

PWI deposed that She used to work in a shopping complex at
Kesavadasapuram. The accident took place on November 14, 2016, infornt of the
shopping complex after 04:30 PM. She deposed that while she was crossing the
road along with others, one scooter came and hit her leg causing contusion and
swelling on her right leg. She was taken to the Medical College Hospital in a
police vehicle and got admitted there. She sustained three fractures on her leg.
She deposed that she gave Exhibit P1 statement to the police. She had not seen the
driver of the vehicle or the vehicle number and would not be able to identify the
Accused,

PW2 deposed that PW1 lives near his House. The accident happened in
Kesavadasapuram, ‘The incident occurred in the year 2017. He doesn’t remember
the date of occurrence, but deposed that it occurred about 04:30:05:00 PM. He
 4

‘was about to board the bus after his job, and witnessed a crowd there and realized
PW1 got hit by the Activa Scooter. She was taken to hospital. He had not
witnessed the incident. He had not seen the driver of the vehicle, number and is
unable to identify the Accused. He had not seen the Activa Scooter or its driver. He
had seen the crowd alone and not the incident, He doesn’t know the reason for the
accident and would not be not be able to identify the driver of the Scooter. On
specific question put forth by the Learned APP, she denied having given statement
to the police to the effect that the driver of the scooter had driven the same rashly
and negligently which resulted in the accident.

PW3 deposed he does not know PWI, The accident took place at
Kesavadasapuram junction during 2016. He doesn’t remember the date and time
of occurrence. Seeing a crowd, he went to check the same and saw that the injured
being taken to the hospital in an auto due to the injury sustained on her leg. He
further deposed that he had seen the crowd alone and not the incident. He doesn’t
know the reason for the accident and would not be not be able to identify the
driver of the Scooter.

(On going through the evidence and the materials on record, itis pertinent to
note that though PWs! deposed that she sustained injuries pursuant to being hit by
‘a scooter, she has no case that the same occurred on account of rash or negligent
driving at high speed of the Accused himself. She has no idea as to who the alleged
driver is or the number of the scooter that had allegedly hit her. PWs 2 and 3, the
occurrence witnesses also categorically deposed that they do not know the driver
‘who had allegedly driven the scooter or the number of the scooter and has no case
that it was the Accused who had so driven the vehicle as alleged by the
Prosecution so as to implicate him. ‘The remaining witnesses were given up by the
Prosecution as the material witnesses, including the injured herself had turned
hostile to the Prosecution and also no purpose would be served in examining the
remaining witnesses in the said circumstance. Thus, there is nothing on record as
revealed from the deposition of the witnesses so as to implicate the Accused to the
alleged incident that the Accused by the aforesaid acts committed the above
 5

offences, having caused PW1 sustain injuries. The Prosecution has thus failed to
substantiate its case by adducing proper evidence and thereby failed to prove the
‘guilt of the Accused beyond reasonable doubt. Hence these points are found in
favour of the Accused.

7. Roint-d: In light of analysis of the points hereinabove, since those are found
in favour of the Accused, no sentence is to be awarded to the Accused.

8. In the result, the Accused is found not guilty of having committed the
offence punishable under Sections 279, 337 and 338 of the IPC. Hence, the
Accused is acquitted of the said offences under section 255(1) of CrPC. His bail
‘bond stands canceled and he is set at liberty.

(Dictated to my Confidential Assistant, transcribed and typed by her, corrected by
me and pronounced in open court on this the 7® day of January, 2025)

Judicial Magistrate of First Class-I

‘Thiruvananthapuram

APPENDIX
List of Prosecution/Defence/Court Exhibits
‘A: Prosecution witness

Rank Name ‘Whether Eye witness,
Police witness, Expert
witness, Medical
witness, Other witness

 B: Defence witness

Rank

Nil

C: Court witness

Rank

Nil

SL. No

‘Suja(cw1)

Satheesan(CW2)

‘Suseelan(CW3)

Nil

Name

Nil

Injured witness.
(Occurrence Witness

Occurrence witness

Whether Eye witness,
Police witness, Expert
witness, Medical

witness, Other witness.

Nil

Whether Eye witness,
Police witness, Expert
witness, Medical

witness, Other witness:

Nal

List of Prosecution/Defence/Court Exhibits

Exhibit No.

PiPwi

A. Prosecution Exhibits

Description

FIS dated 25.11.16

B. Defence Exhibits
 SL. No

Nil

SL. No

Nil

SL.No

Nil

Exhibit No,

Nil

Exhibit No.

Nil

Exhibit No.

Ni

Description

Nil

C. Court Exhibits
Description

Nil

D, Material Objects
Description

Nil

Judicial I Class Magistrate-I,
‘Thiruvananthapuram
 