 1

IN THE COURT OF THE SESSIONS JUDGE,

‘THIRUVANANTHAPURAM
PRESENT : SMT. NAZEERASS, SESSIONS JUDGE

On Tuesday, 4” day of March 2025/13" day of Phalguna, 1946.
Crimlaal MCN 62122075
Crime No 150/2025 of Aruvikkara Police Station

Petitioner/Accused No. 9 :

K Satheesh Kumar aged 58 years
S/o. T Santhakumari Amma
SivamMundela P.O Aruvikkara
Thiruvananthapuram 695543

By Advocates:- Sonay John , Soniya $ Jobin , J Abraham
RB Rahul Raj and Rohit R

Counter Petitioners :~
1) State of Kerala
2) The Inspector, Aruvikkara Police Station
‘Thiruvananthapuram
By Public Prosecutor Dr. T. Geenakumari

This Criminal M.C. is coming on for hearing on 03.03.2025 and the court
‘0n 04.03.2025 passed the following =:

ORDER

This is an application filed under Section 482 of the Bharatiya Nagarik

Suraksha Sanhita, seeking pre-arrest bail.
2. The petitioner is alleged to have committed the offences punishable

under Sections 409 and 420, r/w Section 34 of the Indian Penal Code, and
 2

Crime No. 150/2025 of Aruvikkara Police Station is registered against the

petitioner arraying him as 9" accused.

The prosecution allegation in brief is as follows:- The accused Nos.
1 to 7, who were the staff of Rajiv Gandhi Residents’ Welfare Co-operative
Society situated in Nedumangadu Taluk, along with accused Nos. 8 to 16, in
furtherance of their common intention to obtain wrongful gain and to cause
wrongful loss to the depositors in the Society, during the period from
(01.04.2021 to 31.05.2024, committed misappropriation in the deposits, and
obtained a total sum of Rs.24,74,21,480/- from them.

4, Notice in this bail application is issued to the Public Prosecutor.
‘The Investigating Officer filed report opposing the anticipatory bail application,

Heard. Perused the records.

6. The only point to be considered is, whether an order of anticipatory
bail can be granted to the petitioner/ 9" accused.

‘The Point: The defacto complainant was the Part-Time

Administrator of Rajiv Gandhi Residents’ Welfare Co-operative Society. The

prosecution allegation is that, the accused persons have committed

ippropriation of around Rs.24,74,21,480/- by taking loans in benami names
and by way of advance MDS. The specific allegation against petitioner / 9"
accused is that, he had pledged the property in his name as security for

obtaining different loans and MDS.
 3

‘The petitioner submits that, he is a farmer and is not involved in
any offence, and his brother-in-law, M.Mohankumar, who is a well known
political figure, was the President of Rajiv Gandhi Residents’ Welfare Co-
operative Society, and he committed suicide, after being falsely accused of
misappropriating funds from the said Society. It is submitted that, though more
than 60 crimes have been registered against the office bearers of the Society
based on various complaints, the petitioner is never named as an accused in any
of those crimes, since he did not held any post in the said Society, but later, on
06.02.2025, the Aruvikkara Police registered an F.LR. against the petitioner
and 15 others, including some of his family members, alleging misappropriation
of over Rs.24 Crores from the Society. It is also submitted that, the petitioner

stood as a surety for one of the chitties in the Bank, and he has no connection

the functioning of the society and the alleged misappropriation of funds,

and the present crime has been registered due to political vengeance.

‘The allegation against the petiti

mner is not grave. It is seen from the
report filed by the Investigating Officer that, when a search was conducted in
the Rajiv Gandhi Residents’ Welfare Co-operative Society, it was found that,
using the property and suretyship of accused Nos. 8 to 16, they had availed
various loans and chitties and obtained more than Rs.50 Lakhs in their names
and in the benami names. It is stated in the bail application that the petitioner

stood as a surety for one of the chitties in the Bank, and he has no connection
 4
with the functioning of the Society and misappropriation of funds. Even if
some documents were found in the name of the petitioner, the relevance of the
same in the implication of the crime and the dishonest intention of the petitioner

is a matter of evidence. The exact role of the petitioner

not brought out by
the prosecution. It appears that there is no prima facie case against the
petitioner. It would be a travesty of justice, if the petitioner is put behind the
bars, if he has not committed any offence. No criminal antecedents of the
petitioner is brought to the notice of this court,

10. In view of my discussion above, it appears that there is no
impediment in granting a pre-arrest bail to the petitioner. Considering all these
aspects, itis found that this is a fit case where a pre-arrest bail can be granted to

the petitioner.

In the result, the petition is allowed on the following conditions:~

(1) In the event of arrest, the petitioner/ 9" accused shall be

released on bail on his executing bond for Rs.50,000/-

(Rupees Fifty Thousand only) with two solvent sureties for

the like sum each to the satisfaction of the arresting officer/
Investigating Officer, as the case may be.

(2) Petitioner shall appear before the Investigating Officer
between 10 a.m. and 11 a.m. on every Tuesday for a period
of 3 (three) months or till the filing of the final report,
whichever is earlier.

(3) Petitioner shall also appear before the Investigating Officer
as and when required.
 5

(4) Petitioner shall not commit any offence while on bail
(5) Petitioner shall not attempt to contact the defacto
complainant or any of the prosecution witnesses, directly
or through any other person, or in any other way try to
tamper with the evidence or influence any witnesses or

‘other persons related to the investigation.

In case of any violation of the above conditions or misuse of
liberty, the prosecution or the defacto complainant is at liberty to approach

jurisdictional court for cancellation of bai

(Dictated to the Confidential Assistant, transcribed and typed by him, corrected
and pronounced by me in Open Court on this the 4" day of March 2025)

NAZEERA S.
SESSIONS JUDGE

(Copies : 4)
‘Typed by: Manjusha
‘Compared by :Rifa

ECS..
 Fair Copy of Order in
Crl MC 621/2025
Dated:04.03.2025

