 IN THE COURT OF THE JUDICIAL MAGISTRATE OF THE FIRST CLASS-I

Judi

‘THIRUVANANTHAPURAM
Present: Smt. Karthika $ Varma
jal I Class Magistrate-1, Thiruvananthapuram

Thursday, the 19" day of December, 2024

Calendar Case No. 625/2012

(Karamana Police Station Crime 248/2012)

Complainant State represented by the Sub Inspector, Karamana
Police station in Cr.No.248/2012
(By DrRenjana K C, Assistant Public Prosecutor)
‘Accused ‘Anil Kumar, aged 35 years, $/o.Gopalakrishnan,
resident of TC 54/1085,
Idagramam,Karumom,Melankodeward,  Nemom
village
(By Adv S Preetharani)
Offence Under Sections 294(b), 323 and 354 of the Indian
Penal code, 1860
Plea Not guilty
Finding Not guilty
Sentence ‘Accused is acquitted of the offences under Sections
294(b), 323 and 354 of the Indian Penal code, 1860
‘under Section 248(1) of the CrPC, His bail bonds
stands cancelled and he is set at liberty.
Description o f the Accused.
[Occupatt
LNG Name Father's Name on Residence _| Age
1 ‘Anil Kumar Gopalakrishnan ‘Nemom | 35

 Dates of
‘Occurence | Report | Apprehensi | Releaseon | Commence | Close | Sentence
‘onor bail | ment of trial

or | appearance of or
Complaint trial Order
70322 | oos2n2 | i025 | 1sm205 | is012005 | 1.122024 | 19.12.2028

This case having been finally heard on 17.12.2024 and this Court on the
19.12.2024 delivered the following: =
JUDGEMENT.

This is a case instituted upon the final report filed by the Sub Inspector of
Police, Karamana Police Station in Crime No. 248/2012 u/$s.294(b), 188, 323 and 354 of
the Indian Penal Code, 1860. The sole Accused herein isthe husband of the Informant,

2. The Prosecution allegation is that on 07.03.2012, the Accused in violation of the
Protection Order passed in favour of the Informant herein, slapped the Informant on
her face, showered obscene words on her, outraged her modesty thereby and
committed the offences punishable under Sections 294(b), 188, 323 and 354 of the Indian
Penal Code (hereinafter referred to as the IPC).

3. On the basis of the final report, cognizance was taken in respect of the offences
under Sections 294(b), 323 and 354 of the IPC. Ingredients of the Offence under Section
188 of the IPC were found to be not made out. On issuance of process, the Accused
centered appearance. After preliminary hearing, charge was framed for the offences
under Sections 294(b), 323 and 354 of the IPC. It was read over and explained to the
Accused to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.

 3

4. From the side of Prosecution, CWs 1, 2, additional witness (as per Order in
CMP. No. 3126/2024) and CWS were examined as PWs 1 to 5 respectively and Exhi
P1, Pl(a), P2 to P7 were marked. Pursuant to closure of evidence of the Prosecution, the
Accused was examined under Section 313(1)(b) of the CrPC wherein he denied all the
incriminating circumstances adduced against him by the Prosecution. No Defence
evidence was adduced by the Accused.

5. Heard both sides. The following points arise for consideration:

(Has the Accused by uttering obscene words against her and thereby committed
the offences punishable under Sections 294(b) of the IPC?

(i) Has the Accused voluntarily caused hurt to PW1 by slapping on her face and
thereby committed the offence punishable under Section 323 of the IPC?

(iii) Has the Accused intentionally outraged the modesty of the Informant by using
criminal force on her and thereby committed the offences punishable under
Section 354 of the IPC?

(iv) If so, what shall be the proper sentence to be awarded?

6 Roint(a): The injured was examined as PW1 and her FIS marked as Exhibit
PL. To prove the incident, CW2, the occurrence witness was examined as PW2. The
Investigating Officer, PW3, recorded Exhibit PI statement and Exhibit P1(a) body note
and on the basis of the same, registered Exhibit P2 FIR. He further prepared Exhibit P&
Scene Mahazar, Exhibit PS Arrest Memo recording the arrest of the Accused, Exhibit P6
Bail Bond, and Exhibit PS Address Report. The Wound Certificate was initially marked
subject to proof through PW3, Since it was reported from the sice of Prosecution that
the presence of CWS, the doctor who had examined PW1 could not be procured as he

‘was unavailable, the Superintendent, General Hospital Trivandrum was examined as
 4

PWA for the purpose of proving the Exhibit P7 Wound Certificate as per Order in
CMP. No. 3126/2024, Subsequently, PWS mounted the box and proved Exhibit P7.

PW1, deposed that on 07.03.2012 at 10200 AM in front of her house at Kaladi,
‘when she resisted the Accused from take away their child, he slapped on her left cheek
thereby causing her to fall down and further abused her with the words ‘aymaj ea2ee,
gong ons? and kicked her twice or thrice. PW2, the occurrence witness also deposed
in support of the said version that he witnessed the same and heard the Accused
abusing PW1

‘The Learned Counsel for the Accused would argue that the Prosecution has not
been able to prove that the alleged abusive words were of such a nature that is
lascivious, appealing to the prurient interest or capable of arousing sexually impure
thoughts in the minds of its hearers and therefore the offence under Section 294(b) of
the IPC is not attracted. The Learned APP on the other hand, would contend that the
alleged abusive words have been categorically deposed to by PW1 in her FIS as well as
before this Court and the said incident has occurred in front of her house on a Pongala,
day and CW2 has also deposed to have heard the Accused abusing the PW1. She
further submits that no questions or suggestions put forth from the side of the Defence
as to whether the said words are lascivious or otherwise.

In order to attract the offence under Section 294(b) of the IPC, it is essential the
following ingredients have to be satisfied- (i) the offender has uttered any obscene word,
in or near any public place and (fi) the same has caused annoyance to the others. In
addition, the words so uttered must be of such a nature that it must be lascivious,
appealing to the prurient interest or capable of arousing sexually impure thoughts in
the minds of its hearers. To establish an offence under Section 294(b) ofthe IPC, all these
conditions have to be satisfied conjunctively and not alternatively. See, James Jose v.
 State of Kerala, 2019 (3) KHC 531; Sangeetha Lakshmana v. State of Kerala, 2008 (2)
KLT 745; Latheef v. State of Kerala 2014 (2) KH 604

Here, admittedly the place of alleged occurrence is house compound of PW1. Itis
true that the alleged abusive words have been categorically deposed to by PW1
However, it is to be noted that even if the place of occurrence is taken to be near a
public place, considering the fact that the allegeal date of occurrence was pongala day; it
hhas not come out from the evidence either of PW or of PW2 that the alleged abusive
‘words caused annoyance to them or to anyone else who had heard the same and that it

‘was of such a nature that it was lascivi

us, appealing to the prurient interest or capable
of arousing sexually impure thoughts in their minds. Furthermore, PW2 deposed that
he heard and saw the Accused allegedly abusing PW1, but the words thereto are not
deposed by him, nor has he deposed that the same had caused annoyance to him. This
Court is unable to accept the contention of the Leamed APP that no such questions as to
the nature of the alleged abusive words were put forth by the Defence. The reason being,
that, the onus on the Defence arises only when the Prosecution has discharged its initial
burden to establish the ingredients of the alleged offence, which is conspicuously absent
in the present case. Hence this Court finds that the ingredients of the said offence are
not attracted in the present case and this point is found in favour of the Accused.

7. Point (b) and (c): These points are considered together for the sake of brevity and
to avoid repetition,

WI, the injured, deposed that she gave Exhibit P1 Statement to the police to the
effect that she has been injured by the Accused, who is her husband on 07.03.2012 at
10:00 AM in front of her house at Kaladi. She deposed that the Accused attempted to
take away their child and she resisted him, whereby he slapped on her left cheek
thereby causing her to fall down. He further uttered obscene word against her and

 6

kicked her twice or thrice. Hearing her seream when she got kicked by him, people
gathered and the Accused left the kid there and ran away. The said act of the Accused
caused her mental agony and she got defamed. She deposed that she got injured in the
incident and that she sustained contusions on her face and thigh. According to her, the
trial was proceeding in the case filed by her against him under Protection of Women
from Domestic Violence Act, 2005 (hereinafter referred to as the ‘DV Act’) and she
secured a Protection Order in her favour prior to this incident, which is the reason for
the alleged act of the Accused. She deposed that she took treatment from General
Hospital Thiruvananthapuram and that the delay of two days in intimating the police
‘occurred because of the reason that it was Aattukal Pongala on the said day and the

roads were blockes

and further that her two-year daughter had an offering on that day.

PW2 deposed to have witnessed the incident on 07.03.2012. According to him, he
‘went along with CW3, his friend, to the home of PW1 as his sister was also having,
Pongala offering on that day and they came to witness the same, While he was near the
car porch, he heard the cry of the kid and also that of PW1. He went there and saw the
Accused having slapped on the cheek of PW1 and her having fallen down, kicked by
hhim twice on her left leg and further the Accused having uttered abusive word to her
and told her to get off, By the time he rushed there, the Accused had run away. The
other ladies took her inside and he came to know that she got injured. But he did not,
care much attention as it was on the legs. He gave statement to the police on 09.03.2012.

PWS deposed that he had recorded Exhibit P1(a) body note of PW and her left
cheek was found to ben swollen on 09.03.2012. PWS, the Doctor deposed that he had
‘examined PWI on 09.03.2012 with an alleged history of assault by her husband at the
hhome and that she had complained of body ache alone and there were no external
injuries noted on the examination and further that in his opinion, the injury could be as
alleged.
 7

The Learned Counsel for the Accused would argue that the ingreclients of
Section 323 of the IPC are not established in the present case. It is contented that
according, to PW1, she got injured and sustained contusion on her face and thigh,
However, as per the deposition of PWS, PW1 had complained of body ache only and.
there are no internal or external injuries noted on the person of PW1. Thus, the alleged.
injuries stated to have been sustained by PWI have not been corroborated by the
‘medical evidence and that it is PWS who had deposed that PW! complained of body
ache, and PW1 has no such case that she had any body ache. Further, as regards the
swelling on her cheek recorded in Exhibit P1(a), the Learned Counsel for the Accused.
drew the attention of this Court that no such swelling could be noted by the medical
expert, when PWS examined her and that the body note was in fact recorded on the

same day aftemoon prior to examination by the doctor in the evening, which is only a
‘matter of difference of a few hours in between. The Leamed Counsel for the Accused
also submits that there is a delay in registration of the crime and examination by the
Doctor, which were held on 09.03.2012 and the delay is not sufficiently explained.

It is the specific case of the Accused that this case is only an offshoot of the
‘ongoing matrimonial disputes between the parties. The investigation according to the
Accused was conducted without even a preliminary enquiry as regards whether the
alleged Protection Order was communicated to the Accused or not, especially when itis
admitted by PW1 that there are ongoing matrimonial disputes between PWI and the
Accused. The Learned Counsel points out that PW2 is an interested witness, for the
reason that he is a close relative of PW1 and his evidence is not believable as he denied
knowledge as to the ongoing disputes between the Accused and PW1, when he had so
admitted the same to the Investigating Officer in his statement and when PW1 herself
admits the said fact of his knowledge thereto. It is further submitted that there is
discrepancy in the Exhibit P3 Scene Mahazar as the same is seen to have been prepared.
 8

‘on the date of occurrence itself when the consistent case of Prosecution is that Crime
‘was registered on 09.03.2012 and there is not report from the side of the Inve:
Officer pointing out that the same was a bonafide mistake.

ting

Per contra, the Learned APP points out that PW1 has categorically deposed that
‘on the said date and at the said time, in front of her hou:
left cheek, when she resisted the attempt of the Accused in taking away their chid,
thereby causing her to fall down and that he further uttered obscene words to her and
kicked her twice or thrice, She deposed that she sustained injuries and that she was
treated at the General Hospital. The said act of the Accused causing injury to PW1 is
deposed to have been witnessed by PW2. It is further substantiated from the evidence
of PW3, the LO. on basis of Exhibit P1(a) body note that there was swelling found on
the left cheek of PW1 and also Exhibit P7 Wound Certificate proved through PWS
Doctor. The Learned APP would argue that in order to attract Section 323 of the IPC,
even pain is sufficient and that PW1 has deposed that she sustained injuries, supported
by Exhibit P1(a) body note recording the existence of swelling on her left cheek and
Exhibit P7, read with deposition of PWS that PW1 had complained of body ache, The
Learned APP contends that the delay herein has more specifically been explained by
PW1 herself that there was an offering in the name of her child on the same day, roads

the Accused slapped on her

were blocked due to Pongala and there were no police aid posts for the said reason. She
further argues that communication of Protection Order is immaterial in this case for the
reason that, even if for argument’s sake, itis taken that there was non-communication
of the same to the Accused, the alleged act of the Accused, ie. slapping, showering
obscene words and kicking PW1, for whatever reason, would make the factum of non-

‘communication inconsequential. It is further submitted that PW2 cannot strictly be said

to be an interested witness merely for the reason that he is a relative of the Informant.

His presence thereon was natural as he had come to the alleged place of occurrence to
 9

witness the said Pongala, as his sister was also having Pongala offering in the house of

the Informant and is a possible eye-witness.

T have carefully gone through the materials on record, and considered the
submissions of the Learned APP and the Learned Counsel for the Accused. This Court
is unable to accept the contention of the Learned Counsel for the Accused that there ws

not even a preliminary enquiry as regards whether the alleged Protection Order was
communicated to the Accused or not, especially when it is admitted by PW1 that there
are ongoing matrimonial disputes between PW and the Accused, It is true that PW1
has admitted that there are on-going matrimonial disputes between the parties and.
even relating to the custody of the child. The alleged act of the Accused, as rightly
pointed out by the Leamed APP, if proved and substantiated, would make the fact of
rnon-communication of the Protection Order, if any, inconsequential for the reason that
use of force cannot be justified except under the existence of exceptional circumstances
such as exercise of right of private defence ete., and that too unless it falls within the
specific parameters laid down by law in force.

Pertaining to the question of PW2, being an interested witness, this Court dispel
the contention of the Learned Counsel for the Accused that he is an interested witness.
It is well settled that a close relative who is a very natural witness, cannot be regarded,
as an interested witness under all circumstances. He must be a witness who derives
some benefit from the result of a litigation (See Shinoj and Others v. State of Kerala,
2019 KHC 862). Merely for the reason that PWI admitted him to be her close relative,
and his denial as to the knowledge of the on-going matrimonial disputes between the
parties, would not make him an interested witness. The contradiction in his deposition
as regards his knowledge as to matrimonial disputes (Exhibit D3) stand proved through
examination of PW3. That would in view of this Court would definitely throw doubt as,
to his veracity but cannot be said to be an interested witness as his presence thereon
 10

‘was natural, The possibilty of him being the only available witness however cannot be
18 to PW, people had
gathered hearing her scream, and according to PW2, PWI was taken by other ladies

pursuant to being injured.

inferred in the present case for the reason that even acco

As regards the delay, this Court is of the view that the same has not been
properly explained. It is true that PWI deposed that since it was Pongala there weren’t
any police aid post and she had an offering in the name of her child. However, the same
reason for not getting herself treated for two days, despite said alleged contusions on

her face and thigh definitely throws doubt on the case of Prosecution.

On appreciation of
offence punishable under Section 323 of the IPC, it is seen that PW1 has categorically,
deposed as to the alleged overt act by the Accused, i, slapping and
rightly pointed out by the Learned APP and the same is specifically substantiated by the
evidence of PW2. During cross-examination, PW2 deposed that the incident occurred so
spontaneous that he couldn't interfere in between and resist the Accused. Itis true that,
swelling is seen noted in Exhibit Pi(a) and PWS also admitted that the patient had.
alleged of body ache. It is however pertinent to note that according to PW1, she got
injured and the injuries sustained by her are contusions on her face and thigh. No
‘external injuries to the effect as alleged by PW1 is seen to have been noted by PWS who
had examined her on 09.03.2012 evening. Despite deposition by PWS that PW1 had.

‘dence of Prosecution Witnesses as regards ingredients of

ing her, as

complained of body ache, she herself has no case that the alleged act had caused any
pain, bodily disease or infirmity to her. She has no case that by the time she went to the
hospital her alleged contusions had been healed. Admittedly, she gave Exhibit PL
Statement and got herself treated one day later from the alleged date of occurrence and.
both these happened simultaneously, one after the other. Exhibit PI(a) by PW3 is of
course prior in point of time denoting swelling on the left cheek of PW1, which is,
 specifically not seen reflected in the examination by PWS, the Doctor on the same day
after a few hours, PW1 never had a case that the alleged act of Accused caused swelling,
‘on her left cheek and the same suddenly got healed by the time she reached the hospital
by evening. PW3, to the specific suggestion put forth in the cross-examination in the
said regard, admitted that there are no injuries, not even swelling noted by PWS during
the examination of PW. It is at this juncture that the Learned Counsel for the Accused
pointed out that even if the evidence of PWs 1 and 2 is taken on its face value, the
offence punishable under Section 323 IPC is not attracted as the fact that hurt was
caused by the Accused by the alleged act itself is not proved by the Prosecution. This,
Court finds considerable force in the contention of the Learned Counsel for the Accused
the offence punishable under Section 323 IPC is not attracted as PW has not deposed
that in consequence of the alleged act thereof she sustained any bodily pain, disease or
infirmity.

Its settled that in order to bring an act within the definition of ‘hurt’ the same
should cause bodil

pain, disease or infirmity to any person. To prove an offence under
Section 323 IPC, the Prosecution has to necessarily prove that the alleged act has also
caused bodily pain, disease or infirmity to any person. See Padmakumar v. State of
Kerala, 2024 KER 8129. PW1 has not deposed to the effect that she sustained any bodily,
pain, disease or infirmity, The injuries deposed to have been sustained by her is not
corroborated by PW5, the Doctor. Hence, in absence of statement of PW1 that she
sustained any bodily pain, disease or infirmity on account of the alleged act of Accused,
this Court finds that Prosecution has failed to substantiate and prove its case that
ingredients of offence punishable under Section 323 IPC is attracted. This point is
therefore answered in favour of the Accused.

To attract the offence punishable under Sections 354 of the IPC, itis incumbent
that following ingredients have to be established: (i) the offence must be against a
 2

‘woman (i) there must be use of criminal force or assault against a woman, and (

of such force or assault must be with an intention or knowledge that it would outrage
her modesty, Mere vague statements are not sufficient to establish the said intention,
‘The Learned Counsel for the Accused points out that from the deposition of PWS, iti

admitted that the said offence was charge although it was ascertained that Accused was
the husband of PW1 and it is also argued that the intention thereof, which is sine qua
rnon for attracting the alleged offence is not seen proved or established. Here, there is
nothing on the materials on record, either in the Final Report, deposition of the
witnesses or otherwise to attribute such an intention as contemplated under Section 354

of the IPC. Hence, this point is also answered! in favour of the Accused.

8. Point): In view of the above, resultantly, this Court finds that the
Prosecution has failed to prove its case beyond reasonable doubt. The Accused is found
not guilty of having committed the offences punishable under Sections 294(b), 323 and
354 of the IPC and is acquitted thereof uncler Section 248(1) of the CrPC. His bail bond,
stands cancelled and he is set at liberty.

(Dictated to the Confidential Assistant, transcribed and typed by her, corrected
by me and pronounced in open Court on this, the 19" day of December, 2024.)

Judicial Magistrate of First Class 1,

Thiruvananthapuram
 13

APPENDIX
‘A:Prosecution witness
Rank Name Whether Eye witness,
Police witness, Expert
Pwi ‘Ajthakumari(CW1)
pw2 Rajesh Kumar S(CW2) Occurrence witness
pws ‘Asokakumar V (Occurrence Witness
pwa Dr. Jayakumar, Medical Witness
Superintendent(General
Hospital)
ws Dr-Krishnachandran “Medical Witness
BiDefence witness
Rank Name ‘Whether Eye witness,
Police witness, Expert
‘witness, Medical witness,
Other witness
Nil Nil Nil
Rank Name Whether Eye witness,

Police witness, Expert
witness, Medical witness,
 4

‘Other witness

Nil Nil Nil

List of Prosecution/Defence/Court Exhibits

A. Prosecution Exhibits
SL. No| Exhibit Number Description
1 PI(PW1) First Information Statement daed 09.03.2012
2 1 Pifa)(PW3) Body note dated 09.03.2012
3 PAPW3) First Information Report dated 09.03.2012
4 P3(PW3) ‘Scene Mahazar dated 07.03.2012
5 | Pa(PW3) Arrest Memo dated 1.032012
6 | PS(PW3) Bail bond dated 11.03.2012
7 Po(PW3) [Address report dated nil
8 P7(PW3) ‘Wound certificate dated 09.03.2012
B. Defence Exhi
SL.No | Exhibit No. Description
1 | Di Contradictory statement marked through PW2

C. Court Exhibits
 SL.No | Exhibit No, Description
Nil Nil ‘Nil
D. Material Objects

SL.No | Exhibit No. Description

Nil Nit Nil

Judicial First Class Magistrate-t,

‘Thiruvananthapuram.
 16

CALENDAR AND JUDGMENT

District of Thiruvananthapuram Calendar of cases tried by the Judicial I Class
Magistrate Court-, Thiruvananthapuram.

Desesipt
scupati

SLNi Name Father's Name on Residence _| Age

1 ‘Anil Kumar | Gopalakrishnan | - ‘Nemom 35

Judgment in Calendar Case No.CC. 625/12 on the file of the Judicial I Class
Magistrate Court, Thiruvananthapuram.

Complainant:-State represented by the Sub Inspector of Police, Karamana Police
station in Cr-No.248/2012 (By Assistant Public Prosecutor)

Dates of
‘Occurrence | Report | Approhensi | Releaseon | Commence | Close | Sentence
‘on or ment of trial
or | appearance of or

Complaint trial Onder
7032012 | 09032012 | is012015 | 1301205 | 13012015 | 1s122024 | 19.12.2024
Offences: Punishable U/ss.2294(b), 323 and 354 of the Indian Penal code, 1860
Finding: Not guilty
Sentence : Accused is acquitted of the offences under Sections 294(b), 323 and 354

of the Indian Penal code, 1860 under Section 248(1) of the CrPC. His bail bonds stands
‘cancelled and he is set a liberty.

Judicial I Class Magistrate-1,
 7

‘Thi

ruvananthapuram.
DOCKET

Date of Receipt... From

Romarks of the District Judicial I Class Magistrate-1,

Magistrate...

Date of Despate

Date of Receipt,

Magistrate

Date of Despatch

Date of receipt...

Remarks of Sub Divisional Magistrate

‘Thiruvananthapuram.
To
‘The Hon'ble Chief Judicial Magistrate,

‘Thiruvananthapuram,

Calendar Case No. 625/12

Date of Judgment:19.12.2024
Date of Despatch:

Date of Calendar :

Date of receipt
 18
