 IN THE COURT OF THE JUDICIAL MAGISTRATE OF THE FIRST CLASS-1

‘THIRUVANANTHAPURAM
Present: Smt. Karthika S Varma

Judicial I Class Magistrate-I,

Thiruvananthapuram

Monday, the 30" day of December, 2028

CALENDAR CASE No. 1028/16

Complainant Sadasivan K, $70-Kunju Krishnanan, aged 67 years
residing at Vadakkevilakathu Veedu, Near Chaka ITT,
Petta P O, Thiruvananthapuram-695 024
(By Adv Shri Biju)

‘Accused G Asokan, S/o. Gopinathan P, Surendranath Vilasam,
Pullukadu, Kulathoor, Karimanal P
©,Thiruvananthapuram-695 583 Working, as Massier,
Ayuveda Panchakarma Hosputal, Pojappura PO,
Thirwvananthapuram
(By AdvShri Nemom V Sanjeev)

Offences U/s. 138 of Negotiable Instrument Act

Plea Not Guilty

Finding Guilty of Offence u/s-138 of Negotiable Instrument Act

Sentence/Order The Convict is sentenced to pay fine of Rs, 3530007-

(Rupees Three Lakhs Fifty Three Thousand Only), that is;
Rs, 2,00,000 (Rupees Two Lakhs Only) being the amount
of Exhibit P1 Cheque, together with an amount of Rs.
1,53,000 (Rupees One Lakh Fifty-Three Thousand Only),
being the interest for the Cheque Amount at the rate of
9% p.a. from the date of dishonour, ie., 30.06.2016 till this
day, ie; 30.12.2024. The entire amount of fine shall be
released to the Complainant as Compensa
Section 357(3) of the CrPC. In default, the Accused shall
“undergo sentence of Simple Imprisonment for a period of

under

 wo months.

DESCRIPTION OF THE ACCUSED

Name Father's Name ‘Occupation [Residence |Age
IGAsokan——GopinathanP | Karimana
1
DATES OF
(Occurrence [Complaint [Apprehension of [Release on [Commencement of
bail trial
appearance
pes 12082016 12082016 27.01.2017 17.09.2019
Chose of Sentence or Explanation for delay
teal Order
26122004 | 30122004 No delay

‘This case having been finally heard on 26.12.2024 and this Court on the 30-12-
2024 delivered the following:-

JUDGMENT.
1. This case arises out of Complaint filed under Section 190(1)(c) of the Code of
Criminal Procedure (hereinafter referred to as ‘the CrPC’) alleging commission of
offence punishable under Section 138 of the Negotiable Instruments Act, 1881

(hereinafter referred to as the ‘NI Act).

2. The Complainant's case is as follows: The Complaint and Accu

are known to

each other. The Complainant was a CITU union labourer in Sreekaryam and the
 3
Accused was a worker in the Government Ayurveda Panchakarma Hospital. The
‘Accused had requested money from the Complainant for his personal affairs, during
December 2015 and accordingly, the Complainant gave him an amount of Rs 2,00,000/-
(Rupees Two Lakhs Only) at the Complainant’s home, with an assurance that the same
would be repaid to him within three months. The amount when demancled back, the
Accused, on 01.04.2016, issued a Cheque bearing, No. 290511 drawn on his Account No.
20121023432 maintained with the SBI, Vanchiyoor, at the home of the Complainant. The
cheque was signed in his presence and other entries were already filled. The
Complainant presented this Cheque for encashment through his drawee bank, SBT
Sreckaryam and the said Cheque was dishonoured for the reason ‘exceeds
arrangement’ on 30.06.2016. Notice was issued to the Accused on 12.07.2016 and the
Accused on 15.072016 had sent a reply notice denying the knowledge of the

Complainant as well as the entire transaction, Hence this case.

3. On service of summons, the Accused entered appearance and was enlarged on
bail. Copies ofall relevant documents were furnished to the Accused. Particulars of the
offence under Section 138 of the NI Act was read over and explained tothe Accused and
he understood the same. He pleaded not guilty to the offence alleged against him and

claimed to be tried.

4. The Complainant examined himself as PW1 and Exhibits P1 to P5 were marked
from his side. A witness was also examined from his side as PW2. Pursuant to closure

of evidence of the Complainant, the Accused was examined under Section 313(1)(b) of
 4
the CrPC wherein he denied all the incriminating evidence adduced against him by the
Complainant. The Accused examined himself as DWI and Exhibits DI to D3 were

‘marked from his end.

5. Heard both sides. The following points arise for consideration: -

(a) Has the Complainant complied with the statutory requirements under

Section 138 of the NI Act?

(©) Has the Accused drawn and issued Exhibit P1 Cheque in favour of the

Complainant for consideration and in discharge of legally enforceable debt?

(©) Is the Complainant entitled for the benefit of presumptions under Section

118 and 139 of the NI Act?

(d) Has the Accused rebutted the presumptions by adducing probable

rebuttal evidence?

(©) Has the Accused committed the offence punishable under Section 138 of

the NI Act?

(6 If so, what shal be the proper sentence to be awarded?

6 Point (a): Exhibit P1 is the Cheque dated 01.04.2016 and the same is seen

presented for encashment and.

ishonoured on 30.06.2016 as evident from Exhibit P2

Cheque Dishonour Memo for the reason ‘Exceeds Arrangement.’ Exhibit P3 is the

Lawyer Notice issued on behalf of the Complainant dated 11.07.2016 and Exh

 the Postal Receipt in the said regard. Acceptance of notice by the Accused is also noted
from Exhibit P5 Acknowledgement Cards. This complaint is seen filed on 12.08.2016
which is within the prescribed statutory period. Hence, this Court finds that the
Complainant has complied with the statutory requirements as prescribed under the NI

Act and this point is thus found in favour of the Complainant.

7. Points (b) to (d): These points are considered together for the sake of brevity and.

for avoidance of repetition.

7.1. The Leamed Counsel for the Complainant submits that there is categorie
«admission of signature in Exhibit P1 Cheque by the Accused and that his only dispute is
that the Complainant is a total stranger to the Accused and that he has never had any
‘transaction with the said Complainant, According to him, the Complainant is hand in
glove with one Viswambharan, the colleague of the Accused, who is alleged to be a
relative of the Complainant and to whom the Accused had in fact issued the said blank
signed cheque, on account of prior transaction between them; which was misused by
the said Viswambharan and the Complaianant by filing up the entries therein, The
Learned Counsel for the Complainant submits that the Complainant has through her
complaint, affidavit, deposition and documents have categorically established the case
of Complainant. The signature in Exhibit P1 Cheque is admitted by the Accused, his
source of income when challenged by the Accused during his cross-examination, has
been clearly deposed to. The evidence of PW2 also corroborates his case. Despite mere

suggestions in the cross-examination of the PW and 2, the Accused has neither
 6
rebutted the presumption in his favour, nor has adduced any evidence to prove the
non-existence of the legally enforceable debt or liability. The Learned Counsel for the
Accused relies on Priyamavada K v. M Rahufina, 2024(1) KHC 245; Aaramskey Sports
and Fitness and Another v. Sadanandam P.A. and Another, LL.R. 2024 (1) Kerala 889;
Rohitbhai Jivanlal Patel v. State of Gujarat & Anr., AIR 2019 SC 1876; Vij w
Baby & Ane: Bir Singh v. Mukesh Kumar, AIR 2019 SC 2446; to buttress his

contentions.

Per contra, the Learned Counsel for the Accused submits that the Complainant is

4 total stranger to him and that he has never had any transaction between this

‘Complainant, much less the present transaction. According to him, he had borrowed an
amount of Rs. 25,000 (Rupees Twenty-Five Thousand Only) from his colleague, a lab
attender, by name Viswambharan. As a security he had issued the said Exhibit PL
Cheque, which was a blank one signed by him, Similarly, he had also signed on blank
stamp papers to said Viswambharan. Once he settled the amount by repayment, he
requested return of the said Cheque and papers and it was informed that the cheque
and the papers were missing and Viswambharan assured that under no circumstances,
would the same be misused by him and the Accused bonafide believed him. The
Complainant is believed to be a close associate of the said Viswambharan, both of
whom colluded and made false entries in the said Cheque and presented the same for
cencashment, The Learned Counsel for the Accused assails the case of the Complainant

‘on the ground that the transaction and execution of the cheque itself is not proved for
 7
the reasons that (i) the date of alleged lending of money as well as the date of alleged
issuance of cheque is not seen categorically reflected either in the Complaint or in the
Affidavit or deposed to by the Complainant; (ii) variation as regards the alleged
acquaintance of the Complainant with the Accused in his Affidavit and deposition; (ii)
‘onus of the Complainant as regards the source of income is not properly discharged,
especially with reference to his own deposition as regards his financial condition when

read in conjunction with deposition of PW2; wherein discrepancies seen reflected as

regards the amount which PW2 had allegedly owed to PW1 and PW2 had allegedly
mobilised through chitty transaction as well as the time at which it has been given,
leading an inference that PW2 is not a credible witness; (iv) there és no vehement and

specific denial on part of the Complainant as regards his association with said

Viswambharan, as regards the entries in the Exhibit P1 Cheque. The Learned Counsel
for the Accused submits that the Accused has also mounted the box as DWI and
deposed in tune with his case. Thus, the Accused has categorically established his
probable defence through the cross-examination of PWs 1 and 2, Exhibits PI to P3,
statement under Section 313(1)(b) of the CrPC and through his own deposition, thereby
sufficiently discharging the initial onus of proof. To prove his case, he relies on Yahiya P
¥, State of Kerala, 2024 (1) KHC 339; Rahiya v. Jasna 2024 (2) KHC 545; Parameswaran

vv. Sumitha Suresh, 2024 (6) KHC 27.

7.2. The position of law is clear that once the statutory requirements under Section

138 of the NI Act have been complied with,

is obligatory for the Court to raise the
 8
‘presumption under Section 139 of the NI Act. Further there is also a presumption under

Sect

118 of the NI Act that the cheque is drawn for a valid consideration. Hence the
question for consideration is whether the Accused has been able to rebut the said

Presumption.

‘As regards the alleged transaction between PW1 and the Accused, it is the
specific case of the Accused that PWs1 and 2 are total strangers to the Accused, was not
issued in favour of PW1 towards the alleged transaction between them, rather the same
‘was signed and issued in favour of Viswambharan as security for repayment of Rs.
25,000/- borrowed by him from the said Viswambharan, who is hand in glove with the
PWI. PW1 deposed that during 2015, the Accused had requested him amount for his
personal affairs and that during January 2016 he had so given the amount of Rs.
2,00,000/- to the Accused and the same was handed over to him at PW1’s home in the
presence of his wife, children and PW2 and further that it was under the promise to
repay the same within three months that the same was lent to the Accused; and that itis
towards repayment of the said amount, that the Accused issued Exhibit P1 Cheque in
favour of PW1 at PW1’s home and the entries were already filled except for the
signature of the Accused, which according to PW1 was put in his presence. PWI
deposed that he doesn’t remember the exact date of issuance of the cheque and further
that the amount was given during the beginning of January 2016. According to PW1 it
is the money that PW2 had owed him on account of prior transactions between them,

which the latter had repaid in instalments to the former during the beginning of
 9
January 2016 and he witnessed PW1 giving the amount of Rs, 2,00,000/- to the Accused.
‘To substantiate his case, PW1 examined PW2. PW2, when examined deposed that he
knew both the parties as they used to visit his shop and that he used to borrow money
form PW/1 at times. According to PW2, when PWI demanded repayment, an amount of
Rs. 1,50,000/- (Rupees One Lakh Fifty Thousand Only) was repaid by him during the
beginning of January, 2016 at the home of PW1 and that the said amount was mobilised.
by him from the Chitty he had subscribed, pursuant to the first year of subscription,
According to PW1, the day on which he had so repaid the said amount, he found the
Accused at the home of PWI and PW1 handing over to him the said amount of Rs.

1,50,000/- and further an amount of Rs. 50,000/- from his possession in cash to the

Accused,

The Accused points out that the exact dates as to alleged lending of the said
amount is conspicuously not stated in the Complaint, Affidavit or in the deposition of

PW. It is also argued that the

is a glaring difference in the Proof Affidavit of PWL
and his deposition during the crossexamination as to his acquaintance with the
Accused. In the Proof AMfidavit it s stated that PW is having acquaintance with the
Accused before five years prior to the alleged transaction and in the box, he deposed
that hes having acquaintance withthe Accused for about twenty years. Further, during
his crossevamination, PWI deposed of not having bank account at present and used to
hhave the same prior to ten years at Sreckaryam and that ever since he retired from

service at the age of 60, he is not having any source of income and his siblings would
 10
help him financially and that his daughter’s marriage was conducted with the help
from others as well about thirty years back. When specifically put as to how much
amount was given by PW2, PW1 deposed that he does not remember the same exactly
at present. To the specific question as to the commencement and closure of the alleged
chit transaction, PW2 deposed that it was completed in the year 2015 and the period of
chit transaction was for three years, The Accused would contend that, if that be the ease,
then the same would reveal that the amount was mobilized by PW2 during the year
2013 and that would go against the version of PWs 1 and 2 that the said amount was
paid during the beginning of January 2016. PW2 denied the suggestion of the Accused
that he had not even seen the Accused and when questioned, he deposed to the
identifying features of the Accused as a short person, with dark complexion and
‘medium weight with no baldness and thereafter stated to be person with complexion
neither dark nor fair. The Learned Counsel would point that the Accused person is,
having dark complexion and baldness, and the same itself would reveal the falsity in

‘case of PW2 and that he is not a credible and believable witness.

Pertaining to the execution ofthe Exhibit Pl Cheque, the signature in Exhibit PL
Cheque, though admitted, the same according to the Accused is that which he had
fssued in favour of said Viswambharan, PW1 deposed thatthe Exhibit PL Cheque was
issued in his presence at his home, anl the entries except the signature were filled. The
‘Accused contends that specific date of alleged issuance of Cheque is not seen reflected

either in the Complaint or the Proof Affidavit and that specific question were put to
 "
PW1 as regards the same, he deposed that he doesn’t remember the exact date of
issuance of the Exhibit P1 Cheque and barely denied his association, acquaintance as
benami and close relative with the said Viswambaran and also as to who had allegedly
filled the entries in Exhibit P1 Cheque. The Accused as DWI mounted the box and gave
evidence in tune with his defence and said details were already intimated to the PWI

vide Exhibit D1 Reply Notice.

The Leamed Counsel for the Accused strongly argued in light of decisions that
he relied on stated supra that as regards the standard of proof in rebutting. the
presumption is only preponderance of the probability and that the discrepancies
Inferzed and pointed putas elicited through the cross-examination of PWs 1 and 2, his

statement given in examination under Section 313(1)(b) CrPC, Exhi

its DI to D3 and his
<eposition would make his defence so probable that he had discharged his onus as to
rebuttal of the presumption that has arisen in favour of PW by pointing out existence
of suspicious circumstances as elucidated above. Thus, according to the Accused, the
transaction itself is not proved for the said reasons and there is no legally enforceable
debt that exist in favour of the PW1. So isthe case with Exhibit Pl Cheque. He further
argues that the decisions relied on by PWI cannot come to his ad in the present case, as
although the signature in Exhibit PI Cheque is admitted, the specific case is that it has
not been isued in favour of PW1, but in favour of another person and PW isnot the

payee in the present case.
 2
‘The Learned Counsel for the Complainant at this juncture drew the attention of
this Court to the deposition of DW1. In the examination-in-Chief, DW1 deposes in tune

favour

with his defence. He deposed that he had given blank signed Cheque draw
of said Viswambharan on his account maintained with SBT and the said Cheque on
repayment was not given back to him and it was only when Exhibit PI notice was
received by him that he was aware of the same that Exhibit PI Cheque had been,
misused by said Viswambharan in collusion with the PW1. He was shown Exhibit PL
‘Cheque and he identified his signature and denied the entries made therein. During his
«ross-examination, he denied knowledge of PW1 and admitted to have bank account in
SBI Vanchiyoor Branch, which is the only existing account in his name. He even
deposed the address of said Viswambharan and stated that he had borrowed the
amount only from him and admitted his sign in Exhibit P1 Cheque. He further deposed.
that he had issued said Exhibit Pl Cheque and also stamp papers filled with his address
and amount borrowed to the said Viswambharan. He deposed that he does not exactly
remember the date of repayment to said Viswambharan and that it was repaid in cash
at his home and that Exhibit P1 is the evidence for the said transaction according to him.
(On specific questions as to demanding the Cheque back from said person, DWI
deposed that though he asked, the same was not returned and that they both went to
each other's house even thereafter; however, he never went to Viswambaran’s house
demanding return of the Cheque and the same was demanded through phone alone as
the said Viswambharan was laid up pursuant to surgery related to heart, Further,

specific question was put to DWI as to whether he demanded the Cheque back from
 13
Viswambharan when pursuant to receipt of Exhibit Pl Lawyer notice, to which he

answered in the affirmative

addition that the latter's wife had requested not to
disturb her husband since he is laid up. Further DWI categorically denied having
preferred any complaint to the authorities concerned as regards the said Cheques
having been so misappropriated by PW1 and the said Viswambharan as alleged. The

Learned Counsel for the Complaiant points out that the Accused has not been able to

properly discharge his burden to rebut the presumption for the reasons that (i) he

admits the signature in Exhibit P1 Cheque, (ii) he has not deposed as to either the year
during which the alleged transaction and repayment made to the said Viswabharan,
except the amount (ii) he knows the details of said Viswambharan as seen reflected
from Exhibit D1 Reply Notice, yet refrained from examining him to prove his case and
(iv) he has not even approached the concerned authorities by raising grievance as to the

alleged misappropriation of his Cheque. All these would point to the boanfides of the

case put forth by the Petitioner and cuts to the root of the same, especially when the

PWI has denied acquaintance with said Viswambharan or that he is his relative. The
Learned Counsel for PW1 submits that the Accused has not been able to raise a
probable defence as to rebut the presumption in his favour in light of principles laid

down in the rulings relied on by him cited supra,

73. Thave carefully considered the materials on record and the submissions put forth
by the Learned Counsel for the Complainant and the Accused. It is well settled that lack

of averments regarding the details of the transaction is not fatal to the case of the
 14
Complainant, In fact, there is specific averment as to the alleged amount having, been
given to the Accused in the Complaint, Affidavit as well as in the deposition.
Admittedly, the exact dates of payment of Rs. 2,00,000/- and the issuance of the Cheque
though not stated the month and the year during which the same has occurred is
categorically deposed to by PW and the same is substantiated by the evidence of PW2.
‘The contention of Learned Counsel for the Accused that the alleged dates have not been.
stated is therefore not fatal to the case of the Complainant and hence the same is
dispelled. The same goes with the contention of the Accused as regards the discrepancy
in the acquaintance of the PW1 with DWI. It is true that there is a difference in the
‘number of years of acquaintance stated by PWI, however, the same cannot be held to be
‘0 material in the present circumstance of the case so as to shake the evidence of the
‘Complaint. Furthermore, PW1 was aged 73 years as on the date of his examination. As
regards the proof ofthe transaction, issuance of the Exhibit P Cheque and the source of
funds; it is true that PW1 deposed to the effect that he is not having any source of
income since his retirement, but the fact that the amount which he had given to DW1 is
that which PW2 allegedly owed to him and which according to PW2, he had repaid by
mobilising funds from his chit transaction and having seen the remaining amount to
have been paid by PW1 from his possession leaves the question of source of PW1 to
have been answered categorically. The discrepancy pointed out by the Accused in the
alleged amount repaid by PW2 to PW1 in instalments and PWI not remembering, the
exact amount repaid by PW1 to him and that the deposition of PW2 that he came to

‘know that the remaining amount paid by PW1 from his possession was Rs. 50,000/- as
 15
informed by PW1 are also not so material so as to affect the essence of the case of PW1,
‘on consideration of the totality of the evidence. Further the contention that if the
deposition of PW2 to the effect that the chit transaction was completed in the year 2015
and the period of chit transaction was for three years was taken to be true, then the
same would reveal that the amount was mobilized by PW2 during the year 2013 and
that would go against the version of PWs 1 and 2 that the said amount was paid during
the beginning of January 2016, cannot also be accepted. The reason being that, there is,
ro case either for PW1 or PW2 that the said amount was repaid on the same day or at
the same time when he got the same after one year pursuant to his subscribing to the
same, This Court does not find force in the contention of the Accused that there is no
categorie denial by PW1 as regards his acquaintance and association with said
Viswambharan, them colluding to have made false entries in the Exhibit P1 Cheque and
as regards the person who has filed the details therein. This is so, for the reason that, at
the first instance itself when a specific question was put a3 regards his acquaintance
with said Viswambharan, PW1 had categorically denied the same stating that he neither
know the said person, nor is the said person his relative or associate. The questions
‘were repeatedly put to him to which he denied with answers he doesn’t know. This,
Court is of the view that those denials cannot be read in isolation and the same has to be
considered in toto and when so considered, this Court does not find any inconsistency
in the subsequent answers of the PW1 as there is no reason why a person would answer
otherwise pertaining to question regarding a person whom he already categorically

denied to have known or had any acquaintance thereto.
 16

This Court finds force in the contention of the Leamed Counsel for the
Complainant that the Accused has not been able to properly discharge his burden of
rebutting the presumption in favour of the Complainant, Although in the present case,
the Accused raised a plea of probable defence that the Exhibit PI Cheque has been
issued by him in favour of Viswambharan on account of the transaction he had with
him, the Accused has failed to substantiate the same by leading cogent evidence in
support of the said plea. It is settled that itis not only sufficient that the Accused has to
raise plea of probable defence. He shall also lead cogent, reliable and trustworthy
evidence in support of the said plea. This can, of course be either directly or through
cross-examination of the Complainant, materials relied on by him as well and the

standard of proof is only preponderance of probability. However, in the present case,

the evidence led by the Accused would reveal that there is no whisper as to the period
of alleged transaction between the said Viswambharan, the period of repayment, that
the Complainant was in facta close confidante, associate, relative or benami of the said
person especially taking into account that PWI categorically denied any acquaintance
‘with the said person, The sign in Exhibit P1 Cheque is admitted by the Accused. It is
pertinent to note that despite having known that the said Cheque is so allegedly
misused by the PW1 and Viswambharan, no steps taken by the Accused to prosecute

them as regards the alleged misuse before any authorities concerned,

It is true that the rebuttal need not be conclusively established, but such evidence

‘must be adduced before the Court in support of the defence that the Court must either
 "
believe it to exist or consider its existence to be reasonably probable, the standard of
reasonability being that of a prudent man. (See Rahiya v. Jasna 2024 (2) KHC 545), The
conly reason stated herein is that Viswambharan’s wife had in fact intimated the
Accused not to disturb him as he was laid up, which in fact is beyond prudence and
reasonableness. The Court has to consider and appreciate the totality of evidence to
arrive at a conclusion that the case of the Complainant is shaken for the reason of
Accused having established a probable defence. (See Tedhi Singh v. Narayan Dass
Mahant, 2022 (6) SCC 735). The points raised by the Learned Counsel for the Accused
as to have been elicited from the Cross-Examination of PWs 1 and 2 has to be readin
conjunction with the evidence led by him in support of his plea and when so read, the
same, in view of this Court, would only lead to the inevitable conclusion that the

Accused has not been able to properly substantiate his plea of probable defence.

Thus, on an overall consideration of the materials placed on record and
submissions of the Learned Counsel for the Complainant and the Accused, this Court is,
of the view that the Accused has not rebutted the presumption in favour of the
‘Complainant by raising probable defence. There is no cogent evidence to show that the
Exhibit Pl Cheque was not issued in discharge of legally enforceable debt. The Accused
has failed to discharge his onus to rebut the presumption under $.139 that the cheque
has been issued in discharge of a debt or liability. Hence, these points are found in

favour of the Complainant.
 18
8 Points (e) & (f: In light of the above, the Accused is found guilty of having,
committed the offence punishable under Section 138 of the NI Act and is therefore

convicted for the said offence under Section 255(1) of the CrPC.

The Conviet is sentenced to pay fine of Rs. 353,000/- (Rupees Three Lakhs Fifty
‘Three Thousand Only), that is; Rs. ,00,000 (Rupees Two Lakhs Only) being the amount
‘of Exhibit PI Cheque, together with an amount of Rs, 1,53,000 (Rupees One Lakh Fifty
‘Three Thousand Only), being the interest for the Cheque Amount at the rate of % p.a.
from the date of dishonour, ie, 30.062016 till this day, ie; 30.12.2024. The entire
amount of fine shall be released to the Complainant as Compensation under Section
357) of the CrPC. In default, the Accused shall undergo sentence of Simple
Imprisonment for a period of two months.

(Dictated to the Confidential Assistant, transcribed and typed by her, corrected
bby me and pronounced in open Court on this the 30° day of December, 2024)

Sd/-

Judicial Magistrate of First Class -I,
Thiruvananthapuram

APPENDIX
Witnesses examined for the Complainant
Si Name of Witness Date of
No. Examination
T__| KSadasivan(Complainant) | 24-08-2025
2___[Sivankutty Bara

 19

Exhibits marked for the Complainant:

True Copy

No. Document ‘Marked Through
T | Original Cheque No.29051i dated | PWI
(01.04.2016 kept in Chest
2 | Dishonour memo dated 30.06.2016 | PWT
3 | Legal Notice dated 11.07 2016 Pwr
T__ | Postal Receipt dated 12.07.2016 Pwi
3 | Acknowledgment card dated Pwi
16.07.2016
Witnesses examined for the Defence
SI Name of Witness Date of
No. Examination
T__[GAsokan(DWiy Ti.09.2004
is marked for the Defence
No. Document Marked
Through
Di_| Reply Notice dated 25072016 | DWI
D2__[ Postal Receipt dated25072016 | DWT
D3__| Acknowledgment Card Dut
‘Material Objects Marked
Nil
sale

Judicial I Class Magistrate-1,
This

wvananthapuram.

Judicial I Class Magistrate-1,

wvananthapuram.

