 IN THE COURT OF THE CHIEF JUDICIAL MAGISTRATE
‘THIRUVANANTHAPUI
Present:
SUJAK.M
CHIEF JUDICIAL MAGISTRATE, THIRUVANANTHAPURAM

Monday, the 03rd day of March, 2025
‘MC No.268/2025

Petitioner M/s IDBI Bank Ltd., represented by Mr.Lingappa $ Kuruba, S/o
Sivaramreddy T Kuruba, aged 53 years, Deputy General Manager and
Authorized Officer, Retail Asset Centre, IDBI Building, 2 Floor, Near
Passport Office, Panampally Nagar, Kochi, PIN 682036
(By Adv Sri Renjith.R & Syama S.Murali )

Respondent Chithralekha S $ D/o Vijayakumar K, aged SS years, 933 F, 4 403,
Saraswathy Mandiram 4, Naruvamoodu, Pallichal, Trivandrum
695020.

ORDER

This petition was filed under section 14 of the Securitization and
Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest

‘Act, 2002 (hereinafter referred to as “Act”) for taking possession of the

secured asset whi

the scheduled property.

2. The petitioner is a banking company within the meaning under
section § (C) of the Banking Regulation Act and functioning under the
Banking Regulation Act and also under the guiding principles of Reserve
Bank of India, It is represented by its authorized officer. The petitioner is
the secured creditor and the respondent is the secured debtor. The
respondent created a security interest by virtue of a security agreement in
respect of the scheduled property ie., the secured asset in favour of the
petitioner in respect of the financial assistance that she availed from the

petitioner. The respondent committed default in repaying the loan.
 Therefore the account was classified as Non Performing Asset on
18/02/2023. The petitioner issued a demand notice dated 26/05/2023
U/s.13(2) of the Act to the respondent calling upon to repay the loan amount
in full within 60 days. ‘The notice was served on the respondent. Even after
the notice u/s.13(2) of the Act, she did not pay the loan amount within the
statutory period. So, the petitioner filed this petition for taking possession of
the secured asset for realization of the amount due to the petitioner's bank.

3. The authorized Officer of the petitioner filed affidavit in
compliance of Sec.14 of the Act. The affidavit and the documents
produced by the petitioner show that the respondent created a security
interest in respect of the secured asset in favour of the petitioner at the
time of availing loan from the petitioner and failed to repay the amount
even after the receipt of statutory notice u/s.13(2) of the Act. Hence I find
that the petitioner is entitled for possession of the secured asset which is
the scheduled property through the proceedings of this court.

In the result, the petition is allowed as follows:-

1. Advocate Sarang B.L (K/3664/2022) is appointed as the
commissioner to take possession of the scheduled property with due
notice to the respondents and hand it over to the petitioner on proper
acknowledgment. The petitioner shall pay a batta of Rs.5500/- to the
commissioner within 15 days from today and and pay Rs.1500/- on
filing report by the commissioner.

2, The petitioner shall provide a copy of the petition including
the schedule of secured asset to the advocate commissioner for
executing the order.

3. The Station House Officer of the Police Station, in the area
in which the secured asset situated, shall give necessary assistance to

the commissioner if so required for executing the order.
 3

4. The Advocate commissioner is permitted to break open the
premises if required so.

5. The commissioner is directed to prepare an inventory in
triplicate to be attested by two respectable witnesses as regards the
execution of this order and in taking possession of the scheduled
property and copies thereof shall be given to the petitioner as well
as the respondent on proper acknowledgment. The remaining one
copy shall be filed along with the commissioner's report before the
court.

6. The commissioner shall execute the order within 60 days
from the date of payment of first part of the batta as directed in
clause (i),

ictated 10 the Confidential Assistant, transcribed and typed by her, corrected and
pronounced by me in open court on this the O3rd day of March, 2025)

CHIEF JUDICIAL MAGISTRATE
‘THIRUVANANTHAPURAM
