 IN THE COURT OF THE JUDICIAL FIRST CLASS MAGISTRATE-IIL,
THIRUVANANTHAPURAM

Present:Sri.Vinod Babu M.U, Judicial First Class Magistrate-III

‘Tuesday, 04" day of March, 2025

in
Crime No,1197/2023 of Cantonment Police Station

CMP No, 6605/2024

Petitioner + Satheesh Kumar, aged 51 years, S/o Nalinakshan, Bena

Nivas, Vettu Road, , Near level cross, Kaniyapuram.
(By Adv. Sri. K. Mohankumar)
Counter petitioner / _: The State of Kerala represented by the Circle Inspector
Respondent of Police, Cantonment Police Station.
(By Sri. Manu Kallampally,Assistant Public
Prosecutor Grade-1)

Order Allowed
(CMP No. 6544/2024
Petitioner + Nazarudeen, S/o Mohammed Yusaf, aged 60 years,

residing at Nazar Manzil, Market junction, Manja
road, Nedumangadu.
(By Adv. Sri. N. Binu)

Counter petitioner/ 1: Satheesh Kumar, S/o Nalinakshan, Beena Nivas,
Respondents Vetturoad, Pallippuram, Thiruvananthapuram.

2: The State of Kerala represented by the Circle
Inspector of Police, Cantonment Police Station.

(@By Sri. Manu Kallampally, Assistant Public

Prosecutor Grade-1)

Order : Dismissed

‘These CMPs having been heard on this day, and the Court on the same day, passed
the following:
 2
COMMON ORDER

1. These are the applications filed by the prior registered owner and the
possessor of the vehicle bearing No. KA-12-B-4357 (KL-O1-CR-1112) under
Section 497 of Bharatiya Nagarik Suraksha Sanhita,

2. For the sake of convenience for passing a common order, these two petitions
are clubbed together. For the sake of convenience, the prior registered owner
in CMP No. 6605/2024 named Satheeshkumar and the present possessor of
vehicle bearing no. KA-12-B-4357 (KL-O1-CR-1112) named Nazarudeen
who is the rival claimant in CMP No.6544/2024 are mentioned herein in the
present order as petitioner and respondent accordingly.

3, The petitioner herein through Crl.M.P No.6605/2024 filed a petition stating
that he is the original registered owner of an Innova Crysta car bearing no.
KA-12-B-4357 (KL-O1-CR-1112) which was purchased from Karnataka for @
price of Rs. 13,80,000/- . Subsequent to it, the said vehicle was handed over to
one Mr. A. Salim who is the managing director of Asia Stars
Communications Private Limited for the purpose of changing the RC book in
the name of the petitioner through the Regional Transport Department of State
of Kerala, But the above named person Salim transferred this vehicle to
another person named Kunjumon Nazarudeen without the consent and
connivance of the petitioner. This matter was brought to his notice in the year
2021 when he approached the Regional Transport Office. Consequent to it, he
had lodged a complaint before the Cantonment police station and after that,

le crime no, 1197/2023 after

the Cantonment police registered a crime

referring this matter to the Cantonment police station from this court. Now

the vehicle is kept unused for a longer period of time on the premises of
Cantonment Police Station. Hence the vehicle may be released to the interim
custody of the petitioner.
 3

4, In the argument note filed by the petitioner, the person named A. Salim
conspired with another person named Kunjumon, created a false transfer
document by putting the false signature of the petitioner and transferred this
vehicle through the Regional Transport Office. As per the Right Information
‘Act supplied by the Regional Transport Officer now the said department is not
in possession of any documents showing the change of RC book in the name
of the petitioner and relevant documents connecting the change of ownership
of vehicle in the name of Kunjumon from the name of petitioner. The
petitioner now filed an appeal before the appellate authority of the Regional

‘Transport Office, Thiruvananthapuram against the non fun of

information relating to the said vehicle by the Regional Transport Office.

5. In this case, the petitioner produced 11 documents which were marked as
Ext Pl to P11 and examined the petitioner as PW1. ‘The petitioner adduced
documents in support of it and stated that the person named Salim
fraudulently transferred the vehicle bearing no, KA-12-B-4357 (KL-01-CR-
1112) with the help of a person named Kunjumon and further transferred the
vehicle to Nazarudeen. Nazarudeen changed the RC ownership with the
prior forged documents created by Kunjumon with the help of Salim. The
investigation in this case is going on before the Cantonment Police Station. At
this stage the vehicle is transferred to the respondent it would adversely affect
the investigation and every chance to alter, modify and transfer the vehicle to
some other person and could not recover it through the process of law.

6. The respondent who is the petitioner in CMP No. 6544/2024 strongly
‘opposed the contentions put forward by the petitioner herein. ‘The respondent
submitted that the vehicle was seized by Cantonment police as per the search
‘warrant issued by this court. ‘The respondent submitted that he had purchased
the vehicle bearing no. KL-01-CR-1112 from his brother-in-law Kunjumon on
15.10.2022 for an amount of Rs. 13.5 lakhs. Thereafter the RC ownership was
 4

changed through the Regional Transport Office, Thiruvananthapuram. The
vehicle was purchased by Kunjumon from Satheeshkumar, the petitioner
herein on 25.01.2021 for an amount of Rs. 13,00,000/-. It is stated that the
said vehicle was originally registered in Kamataka in the name of Sivasankar
in the year 2020, The accused named Salim in Crime no, 1197/23 approached
the person named Kunjnumon and offered to sell the vehicle. Relying on the
words of Salim, Kunjumon purchased the vehicle and changed the RC
ownership of the vehicle bearing no. KL-O1-CR-1112 through Regional
‘Transport office, Thiruvananthapuram, From Kunjumon the vehicle was
purchased by respondent Nazarudeen who is the petitioner in CMP No.
6544/2024. The respondent produced Ext D1 to D4 showing the ownership of
vehicle bearing no, KL-O1-CR-1112. Hence the vehicle may be released to

the interim custody of the petitioner.
Heard both sides. Perused Ext P1 to P11, D1 to D4 and analysed the statement
‘of PWI and DW1 taken as a part of an inquiry w/s. 4970f Bharatiya Nagarik
Suraksha Sanhita,

. Thave considered the contentions put forward by learned counsel for the
petitioner and respondent as discussed above in CMP Nos. 6605/2024 and
6544/2024. First of all the petitioner adduced a bundle of documents and
raised a strong claim over the vehicle bearing no. KL-01-CR-1112 with the
backdrop of the registration of crime no.1197/2023 of Cantonment police
station. In this case, as per Ext P1 document which is a advance sale receipt
executed in Kudak, Karnataka which shows the transfer of vehicle to the
petitioner by one Mr. Sivasankar N.K, Ext P2 isa document obtained by the
Right to Information Act which shows that the Regional Transport Office,
Thiruvananthapuram is not in possession of the relevant registration
documents of vehicle bearing no. KL-01-CR-1112 after the registration of the
vehicle in the name of the respondent. Ext P3 is another document which
 5

shows that the vehicle was transferred from Satheeshkumar to Kunjumon as
per the Right to Information Act given by the Regional Transport Office,
Thiruvananthapuram, Ext P4 is a document which shows the same matter as
discussed in Ext P2. Ext P5 is another document issued by the Regional
‘Transport Office, Thiruvananthapuram which shows the transfer of the vehicle
from Sivasankar to the petitioner. Ext P6 is a document from the Regional
Transport Office, Thiruvananthapuram which shows that a hearing was

conducted in this matter by the Joint Regional Transport Officer and

Sri, Kunjumon was not present and did not participate in the said proceedings.
Ext P7 is a document showing that the matter was taken by the appellate
authority of the Regional Transport Office, Thiruvananthapuram, Ext P8 is a
document which shows that the registration of the said vehicle was
completed through the Regional Transport Office, Thiruvananthapuram.
Ext P9 is a document which is stick on by the counsel for the petitioner
stating that it is an application for the transfer of ownership of the vehicle
executed by the petitioner which is a forged document. Ext P10, Ext P11 are
the documents showing the transfer of other vehicles in the name of the
petitioner. On the other hand the respondent filed four documents Ext D1 is
the sale agreement executed by the petitioner in favour of ‘Kunjnumon and
Ext D2 is the sale agreement executed by Kunjumon in the favour of
respondent. Ext D3 is the registration document showing the ownership of the
vehicle in favour of the respondent and Ext D4 is the insurance certificate in
favour of the respondent.

9. As per the statements of PW1 and DW1_ both of them are claiming ownership
or possession over the vehicle bearing no. KL-O1-CR-1112 based on the
documents marked as Ext P1 to P11 and Ext D1 to D4.

10.The questions that arise for consideration in this case are as follows:-

1. Is the petitioner or respondent entitled to the proper custody of vehicle
 6

bearing no, KL-01-CR-1112 pending the conclusion of the proceedings in
this case?

2, Is the petitioner or respondent established superior title over the vehicle
bearing no, KL-01-CR-1112 in the strength of the documents produced in
this case?

3, Whether this court has the power to decide the question of the ownership
and right of possession over the vehicle bearing no.KL-01-CR-1112 while
considering an application for interim custody of the said vehicle as per

?

11. In this case, this court elaborately discussed the contentions put forward by

section 497 of Bharatiya Nagarik Suraksha San!
the petitioner, and respondents based on their documents. which are marked as
Ext P1 to P11 and Ext D1 to D4. For the sake of convenience point nos. 1 to
3 can be considered together. In this case, the first question to be decided is
whether the court has locus standi_ to determine the ownership and possession
of vehicle bearing no. KL-O1-CR-1112 while considering the application for
interim custody of the vehicle under Section 497 of Bharatiya Nagarik
‘Suraksha Sanhita. It is a settled proposition of law that the summary power to
order custody under Section 497 of Bharatiya Nagarik Suraksha Sanhita is to
be exercised judiciously in respect of any property produced before that court
in the circumstances contemplated under the said section. However, it should
not be exercised when the competent Civil Court is in seizin of the matter to
decide the question of ownership and right of possession. So the said power
of the Magistrate does not extend the determination of the ownership of
property so produced and the main purpose of such exercise when the
property concerned shall be (1) the owner of the vehicle should not suffer on
account of its remaining unused or by its misappropriation, (2) the court or
police would not be required to keep the vehicle in safe custody as a vehicle is

for want of user, it is likely to get rusted. ‘The interim custody of such a
 2

7

vehicle is only a custody in trust for and on behalf of the court and its very
purpose is nothing but it protect and preserve the property pending trial and
also to ensure control over it. While exercising the power, the court imposes
or incorporates necessary precautions and conditions. To substantiate the view
taken by this court I have gone through the decision of the Hon'ble High
Court of Kerala in Saji Devan V. State of Kerala reported in 2009 (4) KHC
£882, itis held that Magistrate while exercising the power is not deciding the
question of ownership and right of possession and competent civil court is
vested with the power to decide the question of ownership and possession. So
based on the discussion, this court is of the opinion that this court cannot
decide the right of ownership and possession of a vehicle bearing no. KL-O1-
CR-1112 while considering an application for interim custody of said vehicle
under Section 497 of Bharatiya Nagarik Suraksha Sanhita, The limited
question to be considered is who is entitled to the proper custody of the
vehicle pending the conclusion of the proceedings in this case, In this case,
another peculiarity is that both the parties are claiming ownership and
possession over the vehicle based on a bundle of documents. The petitioner is
alleging fraud against the respondent for the creation of forged documents by
the prior owner of the said vehicle and challenging that the respondent is not
a bonafide purchaser. ‘The respondent on the other side produced documents
and asserting that he is a bonafide purchaser and purchased the vehicle for a
valuable consideration from his brother-in-law. Then another question is. who
is having superior title over the vehicle for the purpose of deciding the limited
question of interim custody of the vehicle and who could best use the vehicle
is yet another important consideration taken into account while considering
this application in this case.

In this case, the police filed a report in two petitions. In both petitions, the
strong contention of the police is that investigation is going on in crime no.
 1197/2023 of Cantonment Police Station registered against one Mr. Salim
who is alleged to have created forged documents and transferred the vehicle
bearing no. KL-O1-CR-1112 in the name of Kunjumon and thereafter to
‘Nazarudeen through the Regional Transport Office, Thiruvananthapuram. As
per the police report the police sent notice to Regional Transport Office,
Thiruvananthapuram and as per the report of Regional Transport Office,
Thiruvananthapuram the documents showing the registration of vehicle
bearing no. KL-O1-CR-1112 in the name of the respondent is not in the
possession of the Regional Transport Office, Thiruvananthapuram and they
could not find out. the documents showing the ownership of the vehicle in the
name of the respondent, Only after getting the documents including the
transfer application signed by the petitioner, the investigation could be
continued including sending the disputed documents to the FSL department.
At this stage, the vehicle bearing no. KL-O1-CR-1112 is released to the
interim custody of the respondent it would adversely affect the investigation
and may transfer the vehicle. So as per the police report the Cantonment
police have strong objection to releasing the vehicle in the favour of the
respondent due to the reason that a crime was registered relating to this
vehicle vide crime no. 1197/2023 before the Cantonment police station and
the vehicle was seized through the search warrant of this court. It is important
to note that on perusing the documents of Ext P1 to P11 and on going through
the report of the police this court noted that the registration documents
showing the transfer of vehicle bearing no. KL-O1-CR-1112 in favour of
Kunjumon from the petitioner and from Kunjumon to Nazarudeen were found
missing and an internal inquiry is going on in the Regional Transport Office,
Thiruvananthapuram by the appellate authority of said office in this matter.
So from the available documents, it is clear that the ownership of vehicle
bearing no. KL-O1-CR-1112 is under challenge before the Regional Transport

 9

Office, Thiruvananthapuram and under investigation as per crime
‘no.1197/2023 of Cantonment Police station. Even though the respondent is
holding the RC book of the vehicle bearing no.KL-01-CR-1112, the relevant
documents were misplaced from the Regional Transport Office,
Thiruvananthapuram from where the RC book was issued. In Biju V. Sub
Inspector of Police reported in 1996 Crl Law Journal 1927 it is held that
who could best use the vehicle is yet another important consideration taken
into account while exercising the power under the said section, But the
considerations like ownership in the Registration Certificate and being the
person who could best use the vehicle would lose all their significance when
the applicant is an accused alleged to have acquired the possession of the
vehicle in question through the commission of an offence. In this case, as per
crime no, 1197/2023 of Cantonment police station one Mr. Salim is the
accused who is not the party in this case. According to the respondent, the
respondent is a bonafide purchase as stated by him. But as per the police
report the investigation is going on and at this stage, this court cannot
predicate who will be the accused in this case after the completion of the
investigation of crime no. 1197/2023 of Cantonment Police Station.
Moreover, a parallel inquiry is going on in the Regional Transport Office,
Thiruvananthapuram regarding the missing of registration documents
relating to vehicle bearing no. KL-O1-CR-1112 registered in favour of the
respondent.

13.It is a settled proposition of law that the registered owner is entitled to. the
possession of the vehicle. But if a rival claim was raised in this case by
claiming superior title over the vehicle bearing no. KL-O1-CR-1112 by
producing a bundle of documents showing a cloud over the title of vehicle
bearing no KL-O1-CR-1112 by raising allegations against the Regional
Transport Office, Thiruvananthapuram who is responsible for the due
 10

registration of the vehicle and consequent registration of crime vide crime
no.1197/2023 of Cantonment police station for creating forged documents,
this court is of the opinion that even though the respondent is the registered
owner as per Ext D1 to D4, he could not succeed in claiming a superior title
over the said vehicle by rebutting the authenticity of documents vide Ext P1
to P11 produced by the petitioner in this case. This court is of the opinion that
even though the petitioner is a registered owner, he loss the entitlement to
tuse the vehicle on the reason that the vehicle was acquired and the possession
of the vehicle in question through the commission of an offence. Hence by
weighing the evidence of both the petitioner and respondent, the petitioner
succeeded in proving the superior title over the property at this present stage
of proceeding. The order passed under Section 497 Bharatiya Nagarik

Suraksha Sanhita is only intended to make a provisional arrangement with

regard to the interim custody of the articles seized during the pendency of the
trial. The purpose of such an order is to protect and preserve the property
during the pendency of the trial. Therefore, even if any articles seized during
the investigation are released to the party concerned, the custody of the same
is deemed to be retained by the court. While passing an order of release, itis
being entrusted to the person to preserve the said article until the trial is over,
with an obligation to return the same to the court as and when required. The
title or right of such person on such article is not to be decided. Therefore, the
crucial question to be decided while passing an order under Section 497 of
Bharatiya Nagarik Suraksha Sanhita is whether the person can be entrusted
with the property during the pendency of the trial. In other words, while the
entrustment of a custody of an article to a person is made as per the order
passed under Section 497 of Bharatiya Nagarik Suraksha Sanhita, such a
person attains the capacity of the representative of the court only and he is
under constant obligation to return the same to the court when demanded. In
 14,

Basavva kom Dyamangouda Patel V. State of Mysore (1997) 4 SCC 358, the
Hon'ble Supreme Court explained in detail the object and scheme of Section
451 of CrPC. After referring to the aforesaid decision of the Hon'ble
Supreme Court in Sundarbhai Ambalal Desai v. State of Gujarath_ reported
in 2003 KLT 1089 while dealing with this matter regarding the release of
property, valuable articles including the currency notes the following
observations were made. (1) preparing detailed proper panchanama (2) taking
photographs of such articles (3) after taking proper security. In Suresh Serve
V. State of Kerala reported in 2020 (3) KLT 395 the Hon'ble High Court of
Kerala formulated certain additional guidelines with regard to the disposal of

articles including currency notes.
It was further held that the owner of the article would not suffer because of its
remaining unused or its misappropriation. The Court or police would not be
required to keep the articles in safe custody. If the proper panchanama before
handing over the possession of articles is prepared, that can be used in
evidence instead of its production before the court during the trial. In this
case, based on the above discussion as this court discussed earlier that the
limited question to be considered is who is entitled to the interim custody of
the vehicle bearing No. KL-01-CR-1112. In this case there is a dispute with
regard to the changing registration of vehicle bearing no. KL-O1-CR-1112 and
cancellation of the registration done by respondent in this case, It is pertinent
to note that as per Section 55 of the Motor Vehicle Act if a registering
authority is satisfied that the registration of a Motor Vehicle has been obtained
con the basis of documents which are or by representation of facts, which is,
false in any material particular before a registering authority, then the
authority shall after giving the owner an opportunity to be heard and reasons
to be recorded in writing cancel the registration. In this case, the petitioner

filed appropriate applications before the Regional ‘Transport Office,
 R

‘Thiruvananthapuram alleging the fraudulent act of creating forged document
relating to the said vehicle and registered a crime against one Mr. Salim for
creating a forged document and transferred the vehicle bearing no. KL-01-CR-
1112 from the ownership of the petitioner. So from the records, it is prima
facie seen that the petitioner had made steps for the cancellation of registration
of the ownership of vehicle bearing no, KL-01-CR-1112 which is now in the
custody of the respondent who is the petitioner in CMP No. 6544/2024.
In Srei Equipment Finance Limited Vs. Ramjan Ali reported in AIR 2021
‘SCC 326 it is held that the purchaser although claimed that he is a bonafide
purchaser but the fact remains that he is the beneficiary of fraud. Purchaser
has no right to claim the release of the vehicle. Here in this case, the
respondent who is the petitioner in CMP No. 6544/2024 is the purchaser of the
vehicle bearing no. KL-01-CR-1112. From the available records, the records
prima facie seems that the respondent who is the petitioner in CMP No.
6544/2024 is the beneficiary of an alleged fraudulent act as alleged in crime
1n0.1197/2023 of Cantonment police station. Hence based on the elaborate
discussion by weighing the validity of documents produced by both sides and
based on the statements of petitioner and respondent taken as a part of inquiry
under Section 497 of Bharatiya Nagarik Suraksha Sanhita this court is of the
opinion that the petitioner in CMP No. 6605/2024 is entitled to get interim
custody of the vehicle subject to the following conditions:

1. The petitioner in CMP No. 6605/2024 shall execute a bond of Rs.
13,80,000/- (Rupees Thirteen Lakhs Eighty Thousand Only) with two
solvent sureties and one surety shall be the resident of the State of Kerala.

2. The petitioner in CMP No. 6605/2024 shall take the photographs of the
vehicle bearing No. KL-O1-CR-1112 in all angles and duly attest the same
by petitioner and learned counsel for the petitioner and prepare a proper
panchanama of the same.
 6

B

‘The petitioner in CMP No. 6605/2024 shall not alienate or dispose of the
vehicle through any document or otherwise until further order of this court.
The petitioner in CMP No. 6605/2024 shall use the vehicle only after
getting proper documents in accordance with Motor Vehicle Act and Rules
from the Regional Transport office concerned.

The petitioner in CMP No. 6605/2024 shall_use the vehicle only after
getting the order from the Regional Transport Office, Thiruvananthapuram
u/s. 55 (5) of the Motor Vehicle Act and Rules regarding the cancellation
of registration in the name of respondent who is the petitioner in CMP.
6544/2024 and change of RC Book in the name of the petitioner named
Satheesh kumar in CMP No, 6605/2024.

The registering authority of the Regional Transport Office,
Thiruvananthapuram shall communicate the order ws. 55 (5) of Motor
Vehicle Act and Rules if any, passed in case of filing of the proper
application from the petitioner named Satheeshkumar in CMP No.
6605/2024 be communicated to the respondent named Nazarudeen who
is the petitioner in CMP No. 6544/2024.

The interim custody of vehicle bearing no, KL-01-CR-1112 given to the
petitioner Sri, Satheeshkumar in CMP No, 6605/2024 shall be subjected to
the final order of the Regional Transport Office, Thiruvananthapuram
regarding the cancellation of registration w/s. 55 (5) of the Motor Vehicle
Act and Rules and also_ relevant orders regarding the usage of vehicles in
accordance with Motor Vehicles Act.

The petitioner in CMP No. 6605/2024 shall not use or make any alterations
without the prior permission of the Regional Transport Office,
Thiruvananthapuram.

‘The petitioner in CMP No. 6605/2024 shall produce the vehicle before the
Cantonment police station for the purpose of investigation in crime no.
 “4

1197/2023 as and when required by the investigating officer. In the
‘meantime, the investigating officer can seize the vehicle and can prepare
relevant documents including mahazar for the purpose of investigation in
crime no. 1197/2023 of Cantonment police station.

10. The petitioner in CMP, No, 6605/2024 shall produce the original
documents now in his possession showing the prior possession and
ownership of the vehicle. The Junior Superintendent of this office verify
the original documents and it should be attested by the petitioner in
CMP No, 6605/2024. The original documents shall be returned to the
pet

ner,
1

Communicate this order to the Sub Inspector of Cantonment police station
and Regional Transport Office, Thiruvananthapuram for the speedy
disposal of the matters in connection with this case pending before the
above authorities concemed including the determination of change of RC
book by the Regional Transport Office, Thiruvananthapuram.
Nevertheless to say the respondent who is the petitioner in CMP No.

6544/2024 and the petitioner in CMP No. 6605/2024 are at liberty to
approach the competent civil court for the determination of the right and
ownership of vehicle bearing no. KL-01-CR-1112.
12, The interim order of custody passed by this court is subject to the final
decree of competent civil court in connection with the ownership and
possession of vehicle bearing no. KL-O1-CR-1112.

In the result, CMP No. 6544/2024 stands dismissed and CMP No.

6605/2024 stands allowed accordingly.
(Cictoted by me, transcribed and typed by Confident! Assistant and corrected by me and
pronounced in the open court, on this the OF" day of March 2025)
Sd/-
Judicial First Class Magistrate — I,
‘Thiruvananthapuram.
 5

‘APPENDIX

(CrLM.P No,6605/2024

‘Witness far petitioner:

Pwi + Satheesh Kumar

PL Copy of Advance Sale Receipt dated 17.01.17

P2 + Right Information Act letter dated 15.10.24

P3 = Right Information Act letter dated 10.12.24

Pa Right Information Act letter dated 15.10.24

PS + Right Information Act letter dated 10.12.24

PG ‘Complaint dated 29.04.24

P7 + Report dated 27.01.25

PB Right Information Act letter dated 15.10.24

P9 Application forthe transfer of ownership of the vehicle

PIO 2 Application for transfer of other vehicles in the name of the
petitioner

Pu + Application for transfer of other vehicles in the name of the
petitioner

CrLM,P.N0,6544/2024

Witness for petitioner ;=

Dwi M. Nazarudeen

Exhibits for petitioner :-

DI Sale deed agreement dated 25.01.21

D2 Sale deed agreement dated 15.10.22

D3 + Copy of Registration Cerificate dated 17.01.17

D4 2 Copy of Insurance dated 19.06.24

Sd’
Judicial First Class Magistrate — 111
‘Thiruvananthapuram.
‘itrue Copy!
