 IN THE COURT OF THE CHIEF JUDICIAL MAGISTRATE
‘THIRUVANANTHAPUI
Present:
SUJAK.M
CHIEF JUDICIAL MAGISTRATE, THIRUVANANTHAPURAM

Monday, the 03rd day of March, 2025 _
M.C. No.79/2025

Petitioner Canara Bank represented by its Authorized Officer and Chief Manager,
Convent Road Branch (Main) Thamarakulam, Kollam 691006.
(By Adv.Smt.Teresa Jaya Fernandez)

Respondents 1 M/s Mangalath Cashew, Vadasherrykonam, _Kallambalam,
‘Thiruvananthapuram 691503

2 Chandrababu $ (Proprietor), aged 68 years, S/o Somapalan,
‘Thekkekara Puthen Veedu, Mulavana, Kundara, Kollam 691503

3 Remani Bhai (Guarantor), aged 62 years, W/o Chandrababu.S,
‘Thekkekara Puthen Veedu, Mulavana, Kundara, Kollam
691503

ORDER

This petition was filed under section 14 of the Securitization and
Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest
Act, 2002 (hereinafter referred to as “Act”) for taking possession of the
secured asset which is the scheduled property.

2. The petitioner is a corporate body constituted and functioning
under Banking Companies (Acquisition and transfer of Undertaking) Act
1970. It is represented by its authorized officer. The petitioner is the
secured creditor and the respondents are the secured debtors. The
respondents created a security interest by virtue of a security agreement in
respect of the scheduled property ie., the secured asset in favour of the
petitioner in respect of the financial assistance that they availed from the
petitioner. The respondents committed default in repaying the loan.
 Therefore the account was classified as Non Performing Asset on
05/02/2024. On 07.02.2024, the petitioner issued a demand notice
U/s.13(2) of the Act to the respondents calling upon them to repay the loan
amount in full within 60 days. The notice was served on the respondents.
Even after the notice u/s.13(2) of the Act, the respondents did not repay the
Joan amount within the statutory period. So, the petitioner filed this petition
for taking possession of the secured asset for realization of the amount due
to the petitioner's bank.

3. The authorized Officer of the petitioner filed affidavit in
compliance of Sec.14 of the Act. The affidavit and the documents
produced by the petitioner show that the respondents have created a
security interest in respect of the secured asset in favour of the petitioner
at the time of availing loan from the petitioner and they failed to repay the
amount even after the receipt of statutory notice u/s.13(2) of the Act.
Hence | find that the petitioner is entitled for possession of the secured
asset which is the scheduled property through the proceedings of this
court.

In the result, the petition is allowed as follows:-

1. Advocate Muhammed Owais (K/2656/23) is appointed as the
commissioner to take possession of the scheduled property with due notice to
the respondents and hand it over to the petitioner on proper acknowledgment,
The petitioner shall pay a batta of Rs.5500/- to the commissioner within 15
days from today and and pay Rs.1500/- on filing report by the commissioner.

2. The petitioner shall provide a copy of the petition including the
schedule of secured asset to the advocate commissioner for executing the
order.

3, The Station House Officer of Varkala Police Station, shall give

necessary assistance to the commissioner if so required for executing the
 order.

4, The Advocate commissioner is permitted to break open the
premises if required so.

5. The commissioner is directed to prepare an inventory in
triplicate to be attested by two respectable witnesses as regards the
execution of this order and in taking possession of the scheduled property
and copies thereof shall be given to the petitioner as well as the
respondents on proper acknowledgment. The remaining one copy shall be
filed along with the commissioner's report before the court.

6. The commissioner shall execute the order within 60 days from

the date of payment of first part of the batta as directed in clause (i).

ictated 10 the Confidential Assistant, transcribed and typed by her, corrected and
pronounced by me in open court on this the O3rd day of March, 2025)

CHIEF JUDICIAL MAGISTRATE
‘THIRUVANANTHAPURAM
