 IN THE COURT OF THE CHIEF JUDICIAL MAGISTRATE
‘THIRUVANANTHAPURAM
Present:
SUJAK.M
CHIEF JUDICIAL MAGISTRATE, THIRUVANANTHAPURAM

Eriday, the 28th day of February, 2025/09th Phalguna 1946
Calendar Case No. 542/2023

Complainant: Dr. Jeny Elizabeth George, aged 34 years, D/o. Daniel
George, BCANTI Homes, Royal Crest, Villaments, Flat
No.3Al, Jawahara Nagar, TC 9/153(4), Kowdiar P.O,
‘TVM (Museum Police Station)
(By Adv. Smt.Suba S.Pillai)

Accused : Dr. Deny Kurian Mathew, aged 40 years, S/o. Kurian
Thottathil Abraham, Thottathil Hosue, Thirumolapuram
PC, Thiruvalla, Pathanamthitta 689115

Charge : Offence punishable under section 6(2) of the Dowry
Prohibition Act.

Plea + Not guilty

Finding + Not guilty

Sentence/ Order

* The accused is found not guilty of the offences punishable
under section 6(2) of Dowry Prohibition Act. Hence he is
acquitted under section 255(1) of the Cr-P.C.

Description of the accused :-

Name Father's name Age |Occupation] Residence [Taluk

DrDeny Kurian_ [Kurian Thottathil Abraham | 40 = fathanamthitta |—
Mathew

 DATE OF

otteace | Complaint | apprehension | Released on fCommencement| or evidence
mama aes | as aaaans [aa
Period of detention under gone during

s, Explanation

purpose of section 428 Cr.P.C

28/02/25 28/02/25, = =

This case having been finally heard today, the court today delivered the

following

JUDGMENT

‘The accused was put on trial for the offence punishable under section
6(2) of the Dowry Prohibition Act.

2. The prosecution’s case in brief is as follows:~ The accused
and the complainant were husband and wife. Their marriage was
solemnized on 14.11.2013. The accused failed to hand over to the
complainant, the properties that he obtained from the parents of the

complainant. The accused thereby committed the offence punishable

under section under section 6(2) of Dowry Prohibition Act.
3. On the basis of the complaint filed by the complainant, this
court taken cognizance for the offence punishable under section 6(2) of the

Dowry Prohibition Act and the complaint was taken on file as CC

542/2023 against the 1st accused alone who is the present accused.

4, The accused appeared before the court. The particulars of the
offence punishable under section 6(2) of the Dowry Prohibition Act were
read and explained to the accused to which he denied it and pleaded not

guilty.
 3

5. The evidence of the prosecution consists of the oral evidence
of PW1. Since there was no incriminating circumstance brought out in
evidence against the accused, the questioning of the accused under
section 313 of the Cr.P.C, was dispensed with.

6. _—_ Heard both sides. Perused the records.

7. The points that arise for consideration are:-

L Whether the accused failed to hand over the properties of
PW1 and thereby committed the offence punishable under
section 6(2) of the Dowry Prohibition Act ?

2. If the accused committed any offence, what should be
the proper punishment to be imposed on him?

8 Point No.1 :- The complainant is PW1. Her evidence shows
that the gold ornaments and the money that was given at the time of her
marriage was with her. Her evidence does not show that the accused was
in custody of the gold ornaments or other property of PW1 at any point
of time. Hence this point is found against the prosecution.

9. Point No.2:- In view of my finding on the point No.1, there

does not arise any question of imposing punishment on the accused.
Hence this point is also found against the prosecution.

In the result, the accused is found not guilty of the offence punishable
under section 6(2) of Dowry Prohibition Act. Hence he is acquitted under
section 255(1) of the Cr.P.C.

(Dictated to the Confidential Assistant, transcribed and typed by her, corrected and
pronounced by me in open court on this the 28th day of February, 2025)

Sd/-
Chief Judicial Magistrate
‘Thiruvananthapuram
 Appendix
Witness for the complainant:-
PWI-DrJeny Elizabeth George

(True copy)

sd
Chief Judicial Magistrate
‘Thiruvananthapuram

Chief Judicial Magistrate
‘Thirwvananthapuram
