 IN THE COURT OF THE JUDICIAL I CLASS MAGISTRATE-V,
( SPECIAL COURT FOR MARKLIST CASES), THIRUVANANTHAPURAM.

Present:-Smt. Aswathy. S, Judicial First Class Magistrate-V,
‘Thiruvananthapuram.

Thursday the 6* day of February, 2025/ 17% Magha, 1946

Petitioners/Accused

iswajith Sarkar, aged 35 years, Slo. Santhosh Sark
Mahala, Manindra Nagar Kaloni, 3 No, Banjetia,
Murshidabad, West Bengal

(By Advocate Smt, Simi. U)

Counter petitioner State of Kerala represented by the Sub Inspector of
Police, Mannanthala Police Station.

(By Assistant Public Prosecutor)

Offence + Ujs. 420 of Indian Penal Code, 1860.
Order Dismissed.
This petition having been heard today the court passed the following:-
ORDER

1. This is the petition filed u/s. 480 of BNSS 2023 by the petitioner / accused in
Crime No. 22/2025 of Mannanthala Police Station.

2. Offence alleged against the petitioner / accused is U/s. 420 of Indian Penal
Code, 1860.

3. The prosecution case in brief as follows:- The accused who was the servant in
the hotel run by the informant with dishonest intention obtained Rs. 6, 25,000/-
from the informant on various dates and thereafter absconded. Thus the
accused has committed offences punishable U/s. 420 of Indian Penal Code,
1860.

4. Petitioner/accused was arrested and produced before this court on 22.01.2025.
Since then he has been in judicial custody. Thus this petition.

5. A report was called for from SHO, Mannanthala police station. Report filed by
the SHO Mannanthala Police Station dated 05.02.2025 stating that the investi-

gation in the above case is going on and if accused is enlarged on bail he may
 flee from justice and also there is a chance that the evidence will be tampered.
6. Heard both sides. The following point has arisen for consideration ?
Is the petitioner /accused entitled to be released on bail ?

7. Point :- The petitioner submits that he is innocent hence entitled to be re-
leased on bail.

‘8. Submission_made by the learned counsel for the accused:- The learned
counsel for the accused submitted that accused is innocent and the matter is
seitled between the partes.

9°. Submission_made by the learned Assistant Public Prosecutor:- The
learned Assistant Public Prosecutor submitted that the accused has absconded
after the incident and if he released there is likelihood of him being absconded.
Hence this application has to be rejected. Further submitted that his custody is
required for investigation,

10, The Honourable Apex Court in B. Chidambaram y. Directorate of Enforce-
‘ment 2020 AIR SC 1699 held that "The jurisdiction to grant bail has to be
exercised on the basis of the well - settled principles having regard to the

facts and circumstances of each case. The following factors are to be taken

into consideration while considering an application for bail: - (j) the nature
of accusation and the severity of the punishment in the case of conviction

and the nature of materials relied upon by the prosecution; (ii) reasonable

apprehension of tampering with the witnesses or apprehension of threat to
the complainant or the witnesses; (ii) reasonable possibility of securing the
presence of the accused at the time of trial or the likelihood of his abscon-

dence; (iv) character behaviour and standing of the accused and the circum-
stances which are peculiar to the accused; (v) larger interest of the public or
the State and similar other considerations (vide Prahlad Singh Bhati v. NCT,
Delhi and another 2001 (4) SCC 280. There is no hard and fast rule regard-
ing grant or refusal to grant bi
and circumstances of each case and on its own merits.

Each case has to be considered on the facts
 3

11. [have heard contentions of both parties and perused the records of prosecution.
While analysing to the fact of the case, it can be seen that the allegations
levelled against the accused is serious in nature, the investigation is at the
initial stage and custody of the accused is required for effective investigation.
Hence considering the facts and circumstances of the case, stage of
investigation, nature of the allegations made against the accused and in the
light of judgments of Honourable Apex Court this court is of the view that
further detention of the accused is required and hence he is not entitled to be
released on bail at this stage. Hence, I am not inclined to allow the bail
application

Asa result, this bail application is dismissed

Dictated to the Confidential Assistant, transcribed and wyped by he
pronounced by me in open court on this the 6* day of February, 2025.

corrected by me and

sd-
Judicial First Class Magistrate-V,
‘Thiruvananthapuram.
inteue copy!
