 IN THE COURT OF THE JUDICIAL I CLASS MAGISTRATE-V,
(SPECIAL COURT FOR MARK LIST CASES), THIRUVANANTHAPURAM.

Preset

smt. Aswathy. S, Judicial First Class Magistrate-V,
‘Thiruvananthapuram.

‘Tuesday the 28° day of January, 2025.
MC. 25/2022

Petitioners i Suji.S, aged 29 years, Dio. Thankachan.P, Thazhathu
Puthuval Puthen Veedu, Mottamoodu, Mavuvila, Nemom,
©, Thiruvananthapuram.

(By Advocate Sri K.S.Gopinathan Nair)

Respondent +: Aneesh.S, S/o, Satheesan T.K, Anju Bhavan, Peerapooru, Mukkola

P.O, Thiruvananthapuram.
This petition having been heard today the court passed the following :

ORDER

L ‘The petition is filed u/s. 12 of Protection of Women from Domestic

Violence Act, 2005.

2. ‘The petitioner submits_as follows:- The marriage between the petitioner and
the respondent was solemnized as per the religious rites and ceremonies
(0n.9.5.2009 .Out of the wedlock 2 children were born the elder is Archana
aged 12 years ,who is an autism patient and the younger is Anishka 10
years .At the time of marriage the respondent told that he was a driver . From
the initial days of marriage itself the respondent was not willing to go for any

job and he started to harass the petitioner physically as well as mentally and he
 2
never ready to shoulder the responsibility of his family . The petitioner further

submits that he demands more money from her ,on 9.4.2022 the respondent

demanded more money from her when she enquired him about the urgency of
the sum he manhandled her by which she sustained grave injuries . Further

submits that the

itioner is now working in LuLu Mall the respondent
humiliates and manhandles her Thus this petition is filed . Under these
circumstances, she had filed this petition and had prayed for relief ws. 18

seeking a protection order w/s 18 and u/s. 20 of the Protection of Women from

Domestic Violence Act, 2005 claiming maintenance of Rs. 10,000/- each for

the petitioner and her children.

After taking the case on file, notice was served on the respondent. The
Respondent was absent. Hence, on 18.6.2022 the petition proceeded ex parte
against the respondent and the case was thereafter posted for the evidence of
the petitioner. Affidavit in lieu of examination in chief was filed by the
petitioner. In the affidavit in lieu of examination in chief reliefs w/s.18 of the
Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act, 2005 are prayed for. For
relinquishing her claim for maintenance of RS.10000 as prayed in the original
petition, CMP. 1363/2024 dated 26.10.2024 was filed stating that the
respondent has no sufficient income as he is not doing any job .The CMP was

allowed subsequently and now the present petition is considering to the extent
 3
of reliefs ws.18 only. The petitioner has not produced any documents. Heard

learned counsel for the petitioner and perused records.

4, The points that arise for consideration are as follows :

1.Whether the domestic relationship between the petitioner and
respondent is proved ?

2, Whether the petitioner was subjected to domestic violence by
the respondent?

3. Whether the petitioner is entitled for a protection order w/s.18 of
the Protection of Women from Domestic Violence Act as prayed
for?

4. Reliefs or costs, if any?

5. Boint No.1: The petitioner submits that she and the respondent were
husband and wife and they got married on 9.5.2009. Section 2(f) of the
Protection of Women from Domestic violence act2005 defines "domestic
relationship" means a relationship between two persons who live or lived
together in a shared household, when they are related by consanguinity,
‘marriage, or through a relationship in the nature of marriage, adoption or are
family members living together as a joint family. ‘The petitioner had filed an
affidavit in lieu of examination in chief. ‘The petitioner was examined as PW1.

PW1 deposed that the marriage between her and the respondent had taken
 4
place on 9.5.2009 and out of the wedlock 2 daughters were born who are now
13' and 11 years respectively and the elder daughter has the medical condition
of autism . In Vineet Ganesh v. Priyaka Vasan 2023(5) KHC 372

honourable apex court held that The preamble of the D.V.Act exemplifies

that it is an Act enacted to provide for more effective protection of the
rights of women guaranteed under the Constitution of India who are

victims of violence of any kind occurring within the family and for matters

connected therewith or incidental thereto. A victim of violence of any kind
occurring within the family is an aggrieved person. An aggrieved person
as defined in S.2(a) of the D.V.Act is any woman who is, or has been, in a
domestic relationship with the respondent and who alleges to have been

subjected to any act of domestic violence by the respondent.

Domestic relationship is defined in $.2(f) of the D.V. Act as a relationship
between two persons who live or have, at any point of time, lived together
ina shared household, when they are related by consanguinity, marriage,
or through a relationship in the nature of marriage, adoption or are family
‘members living together as a joint family. PW1 deposed that she and the
respondent were married on 9.5.2009 and lived together as husband and wife
initially at the residence of the respondent and subsequently they shifted to the
residence of the petitioner .PW1 admits the relationship between her and the

respondents and their daughters .From the oral evidence of PW1 the marriage
 5
as well as the domestic relationship between her and the respondent

proved Hence this point is answered in favour of the petitioner .

Point Nos. 2 and 3:- PW deposed that after the marriage, she and the

respondent lived together as husband and wife at her residence for a change

and the respondent told her that he was a driver but he didn't go for any job
from the initial days of marriage itself . She further deposed that the respondent
created problems by harassing her both physically and mentally for
dowry ,food and for money in addition to that he used abusive words and used
to compare her with other ladies stating that she is ugly .She further deposed
that the respondent was never ready to bear the expenses of their family Jher
parents are bearing the expenses of family including the treatment expenses of
her elder child now she is working at LuLu Mall ,Akkulam According to
PW1 when she ask him money for maintenance he misbehaved to him and
uses filthy language towards her and he now demand money from her ,on
failure to meet his demand he makes quarrel .PW1 in the examination in chief
stated that on 9.4,2022 the respondent had demanded money from her when
she refused ,he assaulted her resulting in injuries due to the intervention of her
neighbours the respondent could not assault her further and thereafter he
started to live separately at his house at Mukkola .PWI stated that the
respondent now threatening her and her children as well as disturbing her over

phone .Further deposed that the respondent is disturbing her by demanding
 6
‘more money for his wayward life . From the oral evidence of PW1 it is proved
that the petitioner had been subjected to domestic violence by the respondent.
‘The application is filed by the petitioner seeking protection order for and on
behalf of their children also ,which as per the provisions of Protection of
Women From Domestic Violence Act provided . Since it is found that the
petitioner was subjected to domestic violence she is entitled to get a protection

order prohibiting the respondent from committing any act of domestic violence

‘ding any kind of physical or mental harassment against the petitioner and
their children and from communicating with her over phone and also from
entering into their place of residence . Hence point No. 2 and 3 are found in

favour of the petitioner.

Point No.4 :- Upon the findings in point Nos. 1 to 3 this court is of the view
that this petition can be allowed in part and the petitioners are entitled to get

the following reliefs:

1. Respondent is hereby prohibited from committing any act of domestic
violence against the petitioner and from committing any act of physical
or verbal or emotional violence ,or any kind of harassment against the
petitioner and their children as per section 18(a) of Protection of Women

from Domestic Violence Act.
 7
2. Respondent is prohibited from communicating with the petitioner
through telephonic contact as per section 18(d) of Protection of Women

from Domestic Violence Act.
3. Respondent is prohibited from entering into the place of residence of the

petitioner

9. Issue a copy of this order of free of cost of the parties to the applications and
officer-in-charge of the Thumba police station and the Women Protection

Officer, Thiruvananthapuram.

Dictated to the Confidential Assistant, transcribed and typed by her, corrected
‘by me and pronounced by me in open court on this the 28" day of January, 2025.

sae
Judicial First Class Magistrate-V
Thiruvananthapuram

Petitioner's Witness ==

PWI- Sujis (CWI)
Exhibit for the petitioner :- NIL

imtrue copy!
