 IN THE COURT OF THE CHIEF JUDICIAL MAGISTRATE
‘THIRUVANANTHAPURAM
Present:
SUJAKM
CHIEF JUDICIAL MAGISTRATE, THIRUVANANTHAPURAM

Friday, the 28 day of February, 2025
M.C. No.81/2025,

Petitioner The Kerala State Co-operative Bank Ltd, (Kerala Bank)
Thiruvananthapuram, represented by their Authorized Officer
(By AdvSri.P-S.Sreejith)

Respondent Anithakumari 'T, aged 58 years, W/o Mani.P, Akhil Nivas, Ayira
PO, PIN 695022

ORDER

This petition was filed under section 14 of the Securitization and
Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest
Act, 2002 (hereinafter referred to as “Act”) for taking possession of the
secured asset which is the scheduled property.

2. The petitioner is a Co-operative institution governed by the

provisions of the Kerala Co-operatives Societies Act, 1969. It is represented

by its authorized officer. The petitioner is the secured creditor and the
respondent is the secured debtor. The respondent created a security interest
by virtue of a security agreement in respect of the scheduled property ie.,
the secured asset in favour of the petitioner in respect of the financial
assistance that he availed from the petitioner. The respondent committed
default in repaying the loan. Therefore the account was classified as Non
Performing Asset. So, the petitioner issued a demand notice dated
05/02/2021 w/s.13(2) of the Act to the respondent to repay the loan amount
in full within 60 days. The notice was served on the respondent. Even after
 the notice u/s.13(2) of the Act, he did not pay the loan amount within the
statutory period. So, the petitioner filed this petition for taking possession of
the secured asset for realization of the amount due to the petitioner's bank.

3. The authorized Officer of the petitioner filed affidavit in
compliance of Sec.14 of the Act. The affidavit and the documents produced
by the petitioner show that the respondent created a security interest in
respect of the secured asset in favour of the petitioner at the time of availing
Joan from the petitioner and they failed to repay the loan. He failed to
repay the amount even after the receipt of the statutory notice w/s.13(2) of
the Act. Hence I find that the petitioner is entitled for possession of the
secured asset which is the scheduled property through the proceedings of
this court.

In the result, the petition is allowed as follows:-

i, Advocate Pooja Padmakumar (K/1772/2020) is appointed as the
commissioner to take possession of the scheduled property with due
notice to the respondent and hand it over to the petitioner on proper
acknowledgment. The petitioner shall pay a batta of Rs.5500/- to the
commissioner within 15 days from today and and pay Rs.1500/- on filing
report by the commissioner.

ii, ‘The petitioner shall provide a copy of the petition including the schedule

of secured asset to the advocate commissioner for executing the order.

. The Station House Officer of the Police Station in the area in which the

secured assets situated, shall give necessary assistance to the
commissioner if so required for executing the order.
iv. The Advocate commissioner is permitted to break open the premises if

required so.
v. The commissioner is directed to prepare an inventory in triplicate to
be attested by two respectable witnesses as regards the execution of

this order and in taking possession of the scheduled property and
 3

copies thereof shall be given to the petitioner as well as the
respondents on proper acknowledgment. The remaining one copy
shall be filed along with the commissioner's report before the court.

vi. The commissioner shall execute the order within 60 days from the
date of payment of first part of the batta as directed in clause (1).

(Dictated to the Confidential Assistant, transcribed and typed by her, corrected
‘and pronounced by me in open court on this the 28th day of February, 2025)

CHIEF JUDICIAL MAGISTRATE,
‘THIRUVANANTHAPURAM
