 IN THE COURT OF THE CHIEF JUDICIAL MAGISTRATE
THIRUVANANTHAPURAM
Present:
SUJAKM
CHIEF JUDICIAL MAGISTRATE, THIRUVANANTHAPURAM

‘Wednesday, the 05th day of March, 2025
M.C._No,75/2025

Petitioner. HDFC Bank Lid., TC 25/2344, Premier Towers Ayurveda
College, M G Road, Trivandrum, represented by its Authorized
Officer Mr-Hari Raj.
(By AdvSri.VSSunil Kumar)
Respondents 1 Aswathy $ D/o Ayyappan, aged 29 years, TC 54/1283,
Revathy Nivas, Arapura Puthen Veedh Melameode,
Nemom P.O, Trivandrum 695020

2 K.Ayyappan S/o chellappan Kumaraswamy, aged 58
years, TC 54/1283, Revathy Nivas, Arapura Puthen Veedh
Melameode, Nemom PO, Trivandrum 695020

ORDER

This petition was filed under section 14 of the Securitization and
Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest
Act, 2002 (hereinafter referred to as “Act”) for taking possession of the
secured asset.

2. The petitioner is a bank. The petitioner is the secured creditor
and the respondents are the secured debtors. The respondents created a
security interest in respect of the scheduled property ie., the motor vehicle
bearing Registration No.KL-01-CM-6699 (the secured asset) in favour of
the petitioner in respect of the loan that they availed from the petitioner.
The respondents committed default in repaying the loan. Therefore the
account was classified as Non Performing Asset. On 15/03/2024 the
petitioner issued a demand notice w/s.13(2) of the Act to the respondents
calling upon them to repay the loan amount within 60 days. ‘The notice was
 served on the respondent. Even after the receipt of the statutory notice
.w/s.13(2) of the Act, they did not repay the loan amount within the statutory
period. So, the petitioner sought for taking possession of the secured asset
for realization of the amount that due to the petitioner's bank.

3. The authorized Officer of the Petitioner-Bank filed affidavit in
compliance of Sec.14 of the Act. The affidavit and the documents produced

by the petitioner show that the respondents created security interest in
respect of the secured asset in favour of the petitioner at the time of availing
Joan and they failed to repay the amount even after the receipt of the
statutory notice ws.13(2) of the Act. Hence, I find that the petitioner is
entitled for the possession of the secured asset ie., the scheduled property
through the proceedings of this court.

In the result, the petition is allowed as follows:~

1, Advocate Simi.U (K/3457/2022) is appointed as the
commissioner to take possession of the scheduled property ie., the motor
vehicle bearing Registration No.KL-01- CM-6699 and to hand it over to
the petitioner on proper acknowledgment. The petitioner shall pay a batta
of Rs.2000/- to the commissioner within 15 days from this day and to pay
Rs.5000/- on filing report by the commissioner.

2. The petitioner shall provide a copy of the petition including
the schedule of secured asset to the advocate commissioner for executing
the order.

3. The Station House Officer of the Police Station in which the
secured asset found, shall give necessary assistance to the commissioner
if so required.

4, The commissioner is directed to prepare an inventory in
triplicate to be attested by two respectable witnesses as regards the
execution of this order and taking possession of the scheduled

property. Copies thereof shall be given to the petitioner as well as the
 3

respondents on proper acknowledgment. The remaining one copy
shall be produced along with the commissioner's report before the
court.

5. Advocate Commissioner is directed to take such measures to
open the lock if the secured asset is found locked, in order to facilitate
taking possession of the secured asset.

6. The Advocate Commissioner shall execute the order
within 60 days from the date of payment of first part of the batta as
directed in clause (i).

Cictated to the Confidential Assistant, transcribed and typed by her, corrected
and pronounced by me in open court on this the 05th day of March, 2025)

CHIEF JUDICIAL MAGISTRATE,
THIRUVANANTHAPURAM
