 IN THE COURT OF THE JUDICIAL MAGISTRATE OF THE FIRST CLASS-I
‘THIRUVANANTHAPURAM
Present: Smt. Karthika S Varma
Judicial I Class Magistrate-I, Thiruvananthapuram
‘Thursday, the 26" day of December, 2024
Calendar Case No. 49/2022
(Crime No. 1857/210f Sreekaryam Police Station)

Complainant State represented by the Sub Inspector,
Sreekaryam Police station in Crime No, 1857/21

(By Smt. Dr-Ranjana K C, Assistant Public
Prosecutor)

Accused
Al: Ajesh,aged 37 years, S/o.Vijayan, resident of
Uthraadam —-Dhavan,Pananvila, — Manvila,
Sreekaryam ward, Pangappara village
A2:Aneesh, aged 35 years, S/o.Aneesh Bhavan,
Manwvila Valya Puthiyadathil, Sreekaryam ward
Pangappara village

(By Adv. Sheena BS)

Offence Under Sections 294(b), 323, 324, 427 tw 34 of
the IPC

Plea Not guilty.

Finding Not guilty.

Sentence ‘The Accused are acquitted under Section 248(1)
of the CrPC of the offences under Sections

294(b), 323, 324, 427 r/w 34 of the IPC. His bail
bond stands cancelled and he is set at liberty.

Description of the Accused

yecupation
nt

‘SLNo| Name Father's Name Residence _| Age

 2

i ‘Ajesh, Vijayan Pangappara—_|_37
2 ‘Aneesh Vijayan, : Pangappara | 35.
Dates of
‘Occurrenc] Report | Apprehensi | Release |Commenceme | Close | Sentence
e conor | onbail | ~ ntoftrial
or | appearance of or
Complaint trial order

yoai2i | 201121 | 11.0723 | 11.0723) 110723 | 19.12.28 | 26.12.24

This case finally came up for consideration and hearing on 19.12.2024 and
this Court on the 26.12.2024 delivered the following: -
JUDGEMENT

1. This case is instituted upon the Final Report filed by the Sub Inspector of
Police, Sreckaryam Police Station in Crime No. 1857/21 for the offences
punishable under Sections 294(b), 323, 324, 427 r/w 34 of the Indian Penal Code,
1860.

2. ‘The Prosecution allegation in brief is.as follows: The Informant is the uncle
of the 1* and 2 Accused. Due to the prior animosity towards the Informant, in
furtherance of the common intention of the Accused persons to voluntarily cause
hurt to the Informant, on 19.11.2021 at 8.00 pm at Pangappara at the road nearby
SJ Bhavan House; the 2" Accused showered obscene words on the Informant who
attempted to resist the Accused persons form causing hurt to his nephew, and hit
‘on his left wrist with a wooden log. The 1* Accused lifted up the sister of the
Informant who had come there by getting hold of her nightie and dropped her
down, resulting her dress to be torn, The Ist and 2 Accused caught hold of her
husband, pushed him down to the floor and kicked him. The gold chain of the
 nephew of the Informant was lost in the scuffle. Thereby the Accused are alleged
to have committed the above-mentioned offences.

3. The cognizance was taken on the basis of Final Report in respect of the
offences under Sections 294(b), 323, 324, 427 r/w 34 of the Indian Penal Code,
1860. On issuance of process, the Accused Persons entered appearance before this
Court. They were enlarged on bail. They were represented by a Counsel of their
‘own choice. Copies of all relevant Prosecution records were furnished to them,
After hearing both parties and on perusing relevant records, charge was framed
for the offences punishable under Sections 294(b), 323, 324, 427 r/w 34 of the
Indian Penal Code, 1860 and the same was read over and explained to them, to
which they pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried,

4. From the side of Prosecution CW1 alone was examined as PWI. The
remaining witnesses were given up by the Learned APP as the material witness,
the injured herself had turned hostile to the case of Prosecution. The other
persons, the relatives of the injured though alleged to have been injured in the
Final Report, none of them were arrayed as Charge Witnesses. Since no
incriminating circumstances arose from the depositions of the witnesses, the
examination of the Accused under Section 313(1)(b) of the CrPC was dispensed
with. No Defence evidence was also adduced.

5. Heard both sides and perused the documents. The following points arise for
consideration:

(a) Have the Accused persons, in furtherance of their common intention,
uttered obscene words to PW1 and thereby committed the offence
punishable under section 294 (b)r/w 34 of the IPC as alleged

(b) Have the Accused persons, in furtherance of their common intention,
voluntarily caused hurt to PW1 and thereby committed offence punishable
under Section 323 of the IPC as alleged?
 4

(©) Have the Accused persons, in furtherance of their common intention,
voluntarily caused hurt to PW1 with wooden log and thereby committed
offence punishable under Section 324 of the IPC as alleged?

(@) Have the Accused Persons in furtherance of their common intention on
the same caused mischief and thereby committed the offence punishable
under section 427 r/w 34 of the IPC as alleged?

(a) If so, what shall be the proper sentence to be awarded?

6. Points (a) to (©): These points are considered together for the sake of
brevity and for avoiding repetition.

PWI deposed that he resides in Manvila, He deposed that he had not
sustained any injury in this incident. He does not remember the exact date of the
incident as two years have already lapsed. It was around late evening, there was,
‘an argument at his house by some people and the police had come. He had given
Exhibit P1 statement to the police regarding the incident. He deposed that at the
timo of the incident, his wife and sister were present there. Neither any damage,
nor any mischief was caused in the incident. There was contusion on his hand on
‘account of his hand having been held by them. He deposed that he can very well
identify the persons who had so assaulted him. But, the Accused persons were not
involved in that incident, he is unable to identify the assailants who assaulted him.
To the leading question put forth by the Learned APP as to whether he had settled
the matter between the parties, he categorically deposed that there is one more
case pending before this Court between same parties, in which he is one of the
Accused; and that both the cases have been settled by them, and he has already
filed a Compromise Petition to that effect.

‘On perusal of the evidence led by the Prosecution and the materials on
record, it is clear from the testimony of PW1 that there is no evidence to support
the Prosecution case. It is pertinent to note that the parties are relatives and the
 other persons alleged to have been injured in the Final Report is not even arrayed
as Charge Witnesses. Furthermore, the fact that PW1 was injured is brought from
his evidence. But there is no whisper that that it was the Accused persons who had
allegedly assaulted him. Thus, there is nothing material on record to prove the
Prosecution case. Also, Compromise Petition was filed as CMP 3650/2024. The
same was rejected and disallowed for the reason that offences involved non-
compoundable Offences well. Further, PW1 admitted the said factum of
composition and settlement between parties when he mounted the box. In the
aforesaid circumstances, the remaining witness was given up by the Prosecution as,
no purpose would be served in examining him in the above circumstances. Neither
the ingredients of the alleged offences, nor the involvement of the Accused persons
brought out in the evidence adduced by the Prosecution. Thus, this Court is of the
view that the Prosecution has miserably failed to prove the involvement of this
‘Accused persons in the above Crime beyond reasonable doubt. Hence, this Court
finds that the Prosecution has failed to prove the case against the Accused and
therefore, Points (a) to (c) are found in favour of the Accused.

7. Point (a); In light of finding in the foregoing points, this point does not
arise for consideration,

In the result, the Accused persons are found not guilty of having
‘committed the offences punishable under Sections 294(b), 323, 324, 427 r/w 34 of
the Indian Penal Code, 1860. He is acquitted of the aforesaid offences under
Section 248(1) of the CrPC. His bail bond stands cancelled and he is set at liberty.

(Pictated to the Confidential Assistant, transcribed and typed by her,
corrected by me and pronounced in open Court on this, the 26" day of December,
2024.)

Judicial Magistrate of I Class -

‘Thirwvananthapuram,
 A: Prosecution witness

Rank

B: Defence witness

6

APPENDIX

Name

‘Santhosh Kumar(CW1)
examined on 26.11.2024

Whether Eye witness,
Police witness, Expert
witness, Medical

witness, Other witness

‘Ocurrence Witness

Rank Name Whether Eye witness,
Police witness, Expert
witness, Medical
witness, Other witness

Nil Nil Nil

C: Court witness

Rank Name Whether Eye witness,

Police witness, Expert
witness, Medical
witness, Other witness

Nil Nil Nil

List of Prosecution/Defence/Court Exhibits
A. Prosecution Exhibits
SL.No | Exhibit Description

Number
 7

SL.No

Nil

SL.No

Nil

SL. No

Nil

PI

Exhibit No.

Nil

Exhibit No.

Nil

Exhibit No.

Nil

First Information Statement dated 20.11.2021

B. Defence Exhibits
Description

Nil

©. Court Exhibits
Description
Nil
D. Material Objects
Description

Nil

Judicial First Class Magistrate-I,
‘Thirwvananthapuram.
 