 IN THE COURT OF THE CHIEF JUDICIAL MAGISTRATE
‘THIRUVANANTHAPUI
Present:
SUJAK.M
CHIEF JUDICIAL MAGISTRATE, THIRUVANANTHAPURAM

Friday, the 28" day of February, 2025
M.C. No.130/2025

Petitioner Kerala State Co-operative Bank Ltd., ‘Thiruvananthapuram,
represented by the Authorized officer / Area Manager
(By Adv.Smt.Vijila V.V)

Respondents 1 Lalisha.l, aged 32 years, D/o Ushakumari.S,
Karikkakathu Kuzhi Veedu, Avaduthura, Vizhinjam P.O,
Thiruvananthapuram.

2 Vipin.S, aged 36 years S/o Madhu John, Sujatha
Bhavan, Kalathukal, Palliyakonam, Karakulam P.O,
‘Thiruvananthapuram.

3 Chandran.G, aged 64 years, S/o George, Karikkakathu
Kuzhi Veedu, Avaduthura, —Vizhinjam P.O,
‘Thiruvananthapuram.

4 UshakumariJ, aged 59 years, D/o__Joyis,
Karikkakathukuzhi Veedu, Avaduthura, Vizhinjam P.O,
Thiruvananthapuram.

ORDER

‘This petition was filed under section 14 of the Securitization
and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of
Security Interest Act, 2002 (hereinafter referred to as “Act”) for
taking possession of the secured asset which is the scheduled
property.

2. The petitioner is a bank. It is represented by its
authorized officer. The petitioner is the secured creditor and the

respondents are the secured debtors. The respondents created a
 security interest by virtue of a security agreement in respect of the
scheduled property ie., the secured asset in favour of the petitioner in
respect of the financial assistance that they availed from the petitioner.

The respondents committed default in repaying the loan. Therefore
the account was classified as Non Performing Asset. So, on
20/09/2023 the petitioner issued a demand notice u/s 13(2) of the Act
to the respondents calling upon them to repay the loan amount in full
within 60 days. The notice was served on the respondents. Even after
the notice w/s.13(2) of the Act, they did not pay the loan amount
within the statutory period. So, the petitioner filed this petition for
taking possession of the secured asset for realization of the amount
due to the petitioner's bank.

3. The authorized Officer of the petitioner filed affidavit in
compliance of Sec.14 of the Act. The affidavit and the documents
produced by the peti

yner show that the respondents created a
security interest in respect of the secured asset in favour of the
petitioner at the time of availing loan from the petitioner and failed
to repay the amount even after the receipt of statutory notice
1u/s.13(2) of the Act. Hence I find that the petitioner is entitled for
possession of the secured asset which is the scheduled property
through the proceedings of this court.
In the result, the petition is allowed as follows:-

i, Advocate Rahul V.S (K/309/22) is appointed as the
commissioner to take possession of the scheduled property with due
notice to the respondents and hand it over to the petitioner on proper
acknowledgment. The petitioner shall pay a batta of Rs.5500/- to the
commissioner within 15 days from today and and pay Rs.1500/- on

filing report by the commissioner.
 3

ii. ‘The petitioner shall provide a copy of the petition including
the schedule of secured asset to the advocate commissioner for
executing the order.

iii, The Station House Officer, Vizhinjam Police Station, shall
give necessary assistance to the commissioner if so required for
executing the order.

iv, The Advocate commissioner is permitted to break open the
premises if required so.

v. The commissioner is directed to prepare an inventory in
triplicate to be attested by two respectable witnesses as regards the
execution of this order and in taking possession of the scheduled
property and copies thereof shall be given to the petitioner as well

as the respondent on proper acknowledgment. The remaining one

copy shall be filed along with the commissioner's report before the
court.

vi. The commissioner shall execute the order within 60 days
from the date of payment of first part of the batta as directed in
clause (i).

(ictated to the Confidential Assistant, cranscribed and typed by her, corrected and
Pronounced by me in open court on this the 28th day of February, 2025)

CHIEF JUDICIAL MAGISTRATE
‘THIRUVANANTHAPURAM
