 IN THE COURT OF THE CHIEF JUDICIAL MAGISTRATE
THIRUVANANTHAPURAM
Present:
SUJAK.M
CHIEF JUDICIAL MAGISTRATE, THIRUVANANTHAPURAM

Monday, the 03rd day of March, 2025
Calender Case No.233/2024

‘Complainant : The State of Kerala, represented by the Sub Inspector of
Police, Railway Police Station, Thiruvananthapuram. (Crime
1No.225/2024)

By Deputy Director of Prosecution

Accused : Padman Dhanasingh, aged 46 years, S/o Dhanasingh,
5/2B1(1), Thattar Street Extension, Thoothukkudi, Tamilnadu
(By Adv.Smt Sunitha.V)

Charge +: Offence punishable ws.118(a) of the Kerala Police Act

Plea : Guilty
Finding + Guilty

Sentence/ Order + ‘The accused is convicted and sentenced under section 264 of
the Bharatiya Nagarik Suraksha Sanhita 2023, to pay fine of
%.100/- (one hundred rupees only) for the offence punishable
w5.118(a) of the Kerala Police Act. In default of payment of
fine, he shall undergo simple imprisonment for 5 days

This case having been heard today, the court delivered the following:
JUDGMENT

‘The accused was put on trial for the offence punishable under section 118(a)
of the Kerala Police Act.

2, The prosecution's case in brief is as follows:- The accused, at
around 18.45 hours on 05/05/2024, committed rioting near the main exit in the
platform No.1 of Thiuvananthapuram railway station. ‘The accused thereby

committed the offence punishable under section 118(a) of the Kerala Police Act.
 2
3. On the basis of the charge sheet submitted by the Sub Inspector of

Police, Railway Police Station, Thiruvananthapuram, cognizance was taken for

the offence punishable under section 118(a) of the Kerala Police Act and summons
was issued to the accused. He appeared before the court through a counsel. A copy
of the prosecution records was served on the counsel for the accused. After
hearing the prosecution and the counsel for the accused, the charge for the offence
punishable under section 118(a) of the Kerala Police Act was framed, read and
explained to which the counsel for the accused pleaded guilty. The plea of guilt
was accepted as it was a voluntary one, The accused is found guilty of the offence
punishable under section 118(a) of the Kerala Police Act. So he is convicted
thereunder. Having regard to the facts and circumstances, I am of view that this is
not a fit case to invoke the benevolent provisions of the Probation of Offenders
Act.

(Dictated to the Confidential Assistant, transcribed and typed by her, corrected and
pronounced by me in open court on this the 03rd day of March, 2025)

Chief Judicial Magistrate
‘Thiruvananthapuram

4, Heard the accused on the question of sentence. The accused
pleaded for mercy. Having regard to the age of the accused, I am of view that

leniency can be shown to the accused.

In the result, the accused is sentenced under section 264 of the
Bharatiya Nagarik Suraksha Sanhita 2023, to pay fine of %.100/- (one hundred
rupees) for the offence punishable under section 118(a) of the Kerala Police
Act. In default of payment of fine, he shall undergo simple imprisonment for
S days.

(Dictated to the Confidential Assistant, transcribed and typed by her, corrected
and pronounced by me in open court on this the 03rd day of March, 2025)

Chief Judicial Magistrate
‘Thiruvananthapuram
