 IN THE COURT OF THE CHIEF JUDICIAL MAGISTRATE

‘THIRUVANANTHAPUI
Present:
SUJAK.M

CHIEF JUDICIAL MAGISTRATE, THIRUVANANTHAPURAM

Petitioner

Respondent

Eriday, the 28" day of February, 2025.
M.C. No.160/2025

State Bank of India, a body corporate constituted under the State Bank
of India Act, 1955 doing the business of banking having its central
office at Medame Cama Road, Nariman Point, Mumbai 400 021 and
office / branches among other places including SARB, LMS
Compound, Vikas Bhavan P.O, Palayam, Thiravananthapuram
represented in the proceedings by the Authorized Officer Priyada,
Chief Manager, SARB, who is duly authorized to verify and sign
pleadings on behalf of the petitioner bank by virtue of notification
Published in Govt of India Gazette dated 2“ May 1987 under
Regulations 76 1/w 77 of State Bank of India Regulation.

(By Adv.Sri.Asok Kumar J.S)

Gireesh Kumar V, aged about 58 years, $/o Viswambaran K, Sole Prop.
M/s Kattunada Devi Brick Industries, Kuzhivila Veedu Palachalkonam,
Kattachalkuzhi P.O, Balaramapuram, Thiruvananthapuram.

ORDER

This petition was filed under section 14 of the Securitization and

Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest

‘Act, 2002 (hereinafter referred to as “Act”) for taking possession of the

secured asset which is the scheduled property.

State

2. The petitioner is a banking institution constituted under the
Bank of India Act, 1955. It is represented by its authorized officer.

‘The petitioner is the secured creditor and the respondent is the secured

debtor. ‘The respondent created a security interest by virtue of a security

agreement in respect of the scheduled property ie., the secured asset in

favour of the petitioner in respect of the financial assistance that given by
 way of loan in favour of the respondent by the petitioner. The respondent
committed default in repaying the loan. Therefore the account was classified
as Non Performing Asset on 28/07/2024. On 01.08.2024, the petitioner
issued a demand notice u/s.13(2) of the Act to the respondent calling upon
him to repay the loan amount in full within 60 days. The notice was
returned unclaimed. Even after the notice w/s.13(2) of the Act, the
respondent did not repay the loan amount within the statutory period. So,
the petitioner filed this petition for taking possession of the secured asset for
realization of the amount due to the petitioner's bank.

3. The authorized Officer of the petitioner filed affidavit in
compliance of Sec.14 of the Act. The affidavit and the documents
produced by the petitioner show that the respondent created a security
interest in respect of the secured asset in favour of the petitioner at the
time of availing loan from the petitioner and failed to repay the amount
w/s.13(2) of the Act. Hence I find

that the petitioner is entitled for possession of the secured asset which is

even after the receipt of statutory n

the scheduled property through the proceedings of this court.

In the result, the petition is allowed as follows:-

1. Advocate Revathy Nair V.S (K/2852/23) is appointed as the
commissioner to take possession of the scheduled property with due notice to
the respondent and hand it over to the petitioner on proper acknowledgment.
The petitioner shall pay a batta of Rs.5500/- to the commissioner within 15
days from today and and pay Rs.1500/- on filing report by the commissioner.

2. The petitioner shall provide a copy of the petition including the
schedule of secured asset to the advocate commissioner for executing the
order.

3. The Station House Officer of Nedumangadu Police Station, shall

give necessary assistance to the commissioner if so required for executing the
 order.

4, The Advocate commissioner is permitted to break open the
premises if required so.

5. The commissioner is directed to prepare an inventory in
triplicate to be attested by two respectable witnesses as regards the
execution of this order and in taking possession of the scheduled property
and copies thereof shall be given to the petitioner as well as the
respondent on proper acknowledgment. The remaining one copy shall be
filed along with the commissioner's report before the court.

6. The commissioner shall execute the order within 60 days from
the date of payment of first part of the batta as directed in clause (i).

@ictated to the Confidential Assistant, transcribed and typed by her, corrected and
pronounced by me in open court on this the 28th day of February, 2025)

CHIEF JUDICIAL MAGISTRATE
‘THIRUVANANTHAPURAM
