 IN THE COURT OF THE JUDICIAL FIRST CLASS
MAGISTRATE-I, THIRUVANANTHAPURAM

Present: Smt. Karthika § Varma
Judicial First Class Magistrate-I, Thiruvananthapuram

Dated, this the 4" day of February, 2025,

C.M.P. No. 44 of 2025,
In
M.C. No. 26 of 2018

Petitioner Aisha Kunju, aged 78 years, W/o.Muhammed
Rasheed, residing at TC 20/1328, Mangatt Veedu,
Mangattu Lane, Karamana Post,

‘Thiruvananthapuram-695 002

(By Adv. Sreena B Sreekumar )

Respondent Muhammad Rafi, aged 53 years, S/o. Muhammed
Rasheed, residing at TC 20/1328, Mangatt Veedu,
Mangattt Lane, Karamana Post,

Provision Section 25(2) of the Protection of Women from
Domestie Violence Act
Order ‘The Petition is dismissed

‘This Application having finally come up for consideration before this
Court 03.02.2025 and this Court on 04.02.2025 passed the following:

ORDER

1. This is an Application filed under Section 25(2) of the Protection of
‘Women from Domestic Violence Act (hereinafter referred to as the ‘PWDV Act’)
seeking for the revocation of the Interim Order in C.M.P. No. 301/2018 and
permitting the Petitioner herein to enter into the shared household.

2. The Petitioner herein is the Respondent in the above M.C. This Court had
vide Order dated 30.06.2018 passed an Interim Protection Order in favour of
the Counter Petitioner herein, who is the Petitioner in the M.C., restraining the
Petitioner herein from physically and verbally harassing the Counter-Petitioner.

3. The case of the Petitioner is that the Counter Petitioner herein is her
mother and that she had obtained an Order from this Court in C.M.P. No.
 301/2018 preventing him from entering into the premises where his mother is,
residing. His ninety-two-year-old father, suffering from various illness, is now
laid up in the shared household. His father informed a neighbour that he would
like to see him in the shared household, however the interim Order as stated
prevents him from doing so. Hence this Petition to permit him to visit his father
in the shared household in the interest of justice. Hence this Petition.

4. Copy of the Petition was served to the Counter Petitioner, and the
Counter Petitioner strongly objected to the revocation of the Interim Protection,
Order,

5. Heard both the sides. The following points arise for consideration:

(Is the Petitioner entitled for revocation of the Interim Protection
Order?

(i) Finding/Order,

6. Point (): At the outset, the Learned Counsel for the Respondent herein
‘submitted that the actual Petitioner herein, that is, the Respondent in the M.C,
was stated as ‘Respondent’ itself in this Petition and vice-versa which itself is
patently defective. It is further pointed out that the interim Protection Order
‘was in fact granted vide Order in C.M.P. No, 302/2018 dated 30.06.2018 and not
CM.P. 301/2018, Attention of this Court was drawn to the the Order of the
Maintenance Tribunal Thiruvananthapuram, directing the Petitioner herein
from vacating the shared household and also to the Order of the Hon'ble High
Court in WP. (C) No, 96/2021 dated 22,06,2021, preferred against the said
Order of the Tribunal by the Petitioner herein, which was partly allowed in
favour of the Petitioner, holding that the said finding of the Tribunal pertaining
to the Petitioner vacating the shared household is not liable to be interfered,
‘The Learned Counsel submits that there is no requirement for revocation of the
Interim Protection Order granted and the circumstances so alleged by the
Petitioner herein to visit his age-old father is only a pretext to make an entry to
the shared household and further harass the Respondent herein. It is further
 argued that there are ongoing civil as well as criminal proceedings pertaining to
the said property including proceeding under the PWDV Act filed by the
Petitioner’s wife against the Respondent herein and her husband; four criminal
cases against the Petitioner herein for the offences punishable under Sections
294(b), 323, 506(i) r/w 34 of the IPC and also two civil suits pertaining to the
property. The M.C. is in the stage of Respondent's evidence and this Petition is

filed only on experimental basis without any bonafides. In the event the interim

protection order is revoked, the same would cause serious prejudice to the
Respondent herein as it would pave way for their harassment.

Per contra, the Learned Counsel for the Petitioner submits that the
defects in the cause title and the C.M.P. No. occurred on account of
typographical mistake and on the said ground alone this Petition cannot be
dismissed and sticked on to his contentions as stated in the Petition,

Ihave carefully gone through the materials on record and considered the
submissions of the Learned Counsel for the Petitioner as well as Counter
Petitioner. It is pertinent to note that it is under any change of circumstances
that this Court can modify/alter/revoke the interim order already passed by
invoking the power of this Court under Section 25(2) of the PWDV Act. This
Court accept the contention of the Learned Counsel for the Petitioner that solely
on the reason of technicality, there cannot be a non-adjudication of this Petition,
However, on perusal of the Order of this Court dated 30.06.2018, it is crystal
clear that this Court had only granted an Ad-Interim Protection Order and the
words thereto does not in any manner restrain the residence of the Petitioner
herein into the Shared Household. There is no Order passed by this Court till
date to the effect that the Petitioner shall remove himself from the Shared
Household or any part thereto. The ad-Interim Protection Order was passed by
this Court on the prima-facie satisfaction of the acts of Domestic Violence to
have taken place against the Counter Petitioner herein. The circumstance being
such, any revocation of the said Order would defeat the very purpose of having
granted the same in the first instance, as rightly pointed out by the Learned
Counsel for the Respondent. As already stated, there is no Order passed by this,
Court till date to the effect that the Petitioner shall remove himself from the
Shared Household or any part thereto. Nor can the ad-interim Protection Order
 already passed be construed in the said manner. Therefore, a question of
revocation of the said Order does not arise in the said circumstances. This Court
cannot delve into and interpret the Orders of the Hon’ble High Court of Kerala
and the Maintenance Tribunal, despite to take notice that there are Orders to
that effect pronounced by the said authorities. This point is therefore answered
accordingly.

7. Point(ii): Resultantly this Application is dismissed.

(Pronounced in open court on this the 4" day of February, 2025.)
Sdi-
Judicial Magistrate of First Class -I,

‘Thiruvananthapuram
‘True Copy

Judicial Magistrate of First Class -I,
‘Thiruvananthapuram
