 IN THE COURT OF THE JUDICIAL FIRST CLASS MAGISTRATE-V,
(SPECIAL COURT FOR MARK LIST CASES), THIRUVANANTHAPURAM.

Present :- Smt. Aswathy.S, Judicial First Class Magistrate- V

Friday the 28" day of February, 2025./ 9" Phalguna, 1946.
CMP. No. 151/2025,
Crime No. 1200/2024 of Thumba Police Station

Petitioner Jelastin, W/o. Treesa, aged 65 years, resi
Kattadithoppu, Thumba, Pallithura P.O.
(By Advocate Sri. Nandakumar C. A)
Counter petitioner State of Kerala represented by the Sub Inspector of
Police Thumba Police Station.
(By Assistant Public Prosecutor)

1g at

Order : Allowed
Heard, perused the records and passed the following :

ORDER
1. This petition is filed ws. 497 BNSS, 2023 by the petitioner seeking for interim

custody of black and red coloured TVS NTORQ motorcycle bearing registration
No. KL-22-Q-1268 involved in crime No. 1200/2024 of Thumba Police Station

2, Offences alleged against the accused is w/ss. 296(b), 115(2), 118(1), 351, 110,
3(5) of BNS.

3. Petition averments in brief is as follows:- That the petitioner is the registered
owner of black and red coloured TVS NTORQ motorcycle bearing registration
No. KL-22-Q-1268. ‘The same was recovered by Thumba Police and produced
before the court as T No. 63/2025. Now the vehicle is kept in the custody of
police. According to the petitioner the said vehicle will be destroyed due to rain,
sunlight and other weather conditions if itis left unattended in the Police Station
premises. Hence filed this petition.

4. A report was called for from St

House Officer, Thumba Police Station. The

Station House Officer filed a report stating objection that the vehicle was used by
 2

the third accused to travel to the place of occurrence.

Heard both sides -The following question has arisen for consideration:

Is the petitioner entitled to the interim custody of motorcycle bearing
registration No. KL-22-Q-1268 which is produced as T No. 63/2025 ?
‘The point := Learned counsel for the petitioner submitted that petitioner is the original
registered owner. Now the vehicle was recovered by the police and is Kept in the
premises of the Police Station. If the vehicle is kept in the premises of police station for
4 Jong period which will result in the deterioration of the value of vehicle and thereby

‘cause irreparable injury to the petitioner. Petitioner is ready to abide by any condition

imposed by the court for the release of the said vehicle to the interim custody of him.
‘The learned Assistant Publice Prosecutor objected the application and submitted, that
the vehicle is required for investigation.
(On perusal of records of prosecution and original documents of the vehicle produced by
the petitioner it can be seen that, the petitioner is the registered owner of the vehicle.
In Sunderbhai Ambalal Desai v.State of Gujarat AIR 2003 SC638 it was held that, In
‘our view, the powers under $.451, Cr.P.C. should be exercised expeditiously and
judiciously. It would serve various purposes, namely: -
1. Owner of the article would not suffer because of its remaining unused or
by its misappropriation;
2 Court or the police would not be required to keep the article in safe
custody;
3. If the proper punchnama before handing over possession of an article is
prepared, that can be used in evidence instead of its production before the Court
during the trial. If necessary, evidence could also be recorded describing the
nature ofthe property in detail; and
4. This jurisdiction of the Court to record evidence should be exercised
promptly so that there may not be further chance of tampering with the article.
10. I have heard the contentions of both parties and perused the materials placed
 3

before me by the prosecution. As per the report the vehicle was used by the third
accused to reach at the place of occurence. ‘There is no investigation pertaining to the

vehicle is going on. No investigation has to be done in connection with the vehicle . In

the

light of judgment of the Honourable Apex Court this court is of the view that,

interim custody of the motorcycle bearing registration number KL-22-Q-1268 can be

granted to the petitioner on conditions. Hence this court is inclined to allow this
petition.

‘Asa result, petition is allowed on following conditiot

L

Petitioner shall execute bond for %.1,00,000/- [Rupees One Lakh only} with two
solvent sureties each for the like sum for the production of the vehicle before the
court as and when directed.

Petitioner shall produce original documents including the insurance certificate of
the vehicle for verification and it shall be returned to the petitioner after keeping
photocopies duly attested by him.

Petitioner shall not dispose or alter the vehicle until further orders or disposal of
the case,

Petitioner shall not sell the vehicle or make it unidentifiable till the disposal of the
case.

Petitioner shall produce photographs of the vehicle duly attested by the Station
House Officer concerned,

Petitioner shall produce the vehicle as and when required the Honourable
Sessions Court.

Before the release of vehicle a detailed mahazar / inventory shall be
prepared.

Dictated to the Confidential Assistant, transcribed and typed by her, corrected by me
‘and pronounced by me in open court on this the 28° day of February, 2025.

Sd
Judicial First Class Magistrate- V,
‘Thiruvananthapuram.

irrue copy/!
