 IN THE COURT OF THE JUDICIAL I CLASS MAGISTRATE-1, THIRUVANANTHAPURAM

Present: - Smt. Karthika S$ Varma, Judicial I Class Magistrate-I, Thiruvananthapuram
Dated this the 27" day of January 2025,
C.P.No. 1/25

Complainant —_: State, Represented by the Sub Inspector of Police, Karamana
Police Station in Crime No. 1119/13
(By Dr-Renjana K C Assistant Public Prosecutor)
Accused : Murukan @ Pambu Murukan, aged 51 years, S/o.Gopalakrishnan,
resident of TC 191446, Near Govt. LPS School, Mudavanmugal
ward, , Thirumala Village
(By Advocate Shri, Rekha S Nair)
Offences + U/Ss. 393 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860
Finding/Order —: ‘The Case against the Accused is committed under Section 232
BNSS to Hon'ble Principal District & Sessions Court,
‘Thiruvananthapuram for trial

‘This case having come up for consideration before this Court on 27.01.2025 and
this Court on the same day passed the following: -
ORDER

1. This is a case wherein Charge Sheet was filed by the Sub Inspector of Police,
Karamana Police Station in Crime No. 1119/13 against the accused alleging commission
of offences punishable under Sections 393 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860.

2. The prosecution case is that the Accused reached the byroad near Andiyirakkam
Junction on 27.10.2013 at 4.30 pm in his Autorickshaw bearing registration number KL
01 2880 and restrained aged 16 years. He asked him to enter the autorickshaw. When
he refused, the Accused pushed him inside the autorickshaw and took him near the
byroad leading to Sasthrinagar, karamna. Thereafter, he stopped the autorickshaw and
robbed the mobile phone and bag in possession of him. When he resisted, the Accused
caught hold of his neck and caused hurt to him. When he cried aloud the Accused
escaped in the autorickshaw leaving the mobile phone and bag on the road. Thus the
Accused is alleged to have committed the above mentioned offences.

3, The case was originally taken on file as C.C. No.68/18 and cognizance was taken
 in respect of the said offences. Thereafter, processes were issued to the Accused. On his
appearance, copies of relevant Prosecution records were furnished to him. The Accused
is already enlarged on bail. The case was posted for framing of charge, at which
juncture it was brought to the attention of this Court that CW1 was aged only 16 years
as on the date of occurrence and offences and offences alleged includes offence under
Section 75 of the JJ Act.

4, This Court considered the submissions of both the Learned APP and the Learned
Counsel for the Accused as to the competency of this Court to try the above offences as
the same involved violation of child rights and also offence punishable under Section 75
of the JJ Act. The Learned APP also pointed out that the settled position in the light of
Section 86(4) of the JJ Act read in consonance with Section 25 of the Commission for
Protection of Child Rights Act that in cases involving violation of child rights, this Court
is not competent to conduct the trial and the Court competent to try the same is the
Hon'ble Children's Court, ie. the Hon'ble Principal District & Sessions Court,
Thiruvanathapuram, Thus, on satisfaction of the above submission and legal position,
the said case was refiled as C.P. No.1 /2025 for the purpose of committing the above
case to the Hon’ble Children's Court for trial

4. In the light of the above circumstances, this case is committed under Section 232
of the Bhartiya Nagarik Suraksha Sanhitha (hereinafter referred to as the ‘BNSS') to the
Hon'ble Principal District and Sessions Court, Thiruvananthapuram for trial

5. The Accused Persons shall appear before the Hon'ble Principal District and
Sessions Court, Thiruvananthapuram as and when required. The entire case records
{including the documents and material objects, if any, shall be forwarded to the Hon’ble
Court aforesaid at the earliest.

6. The Learned APP shall be notified as to the committal of the above case and the
office is directed to retain copies of all relevant records prior to the same being sent to
the Hon'ble Court.

(Dictated to the Confidential Assistant, transcribed and typed by her, corrected and
pronounced by me in the open Court on this the 27% day of January, 2025)

Sdj-

Judicial I Class Magistrate-1,
‘Thiruvananthapuram
 True Copy
Judicial I Cl

15 Magistrate-I,

‘Thiruvananthapuram
 IN THE COURT OF THE JUDICIAL I CLASS MAGISTRATE-1,
‘THIRUVANANTHAPURAM

Prosent: - Smt. Karthika S Varma, Judicial I Class Magistrate-I,
‘Thiruvananthapuram

Dated this the 07" day of January 2025

CC.No, 68/18

Complainant State-Represented by the Sub Inspector of Police, Karamana
Police Station in Crime No. 1119/13.
(By DrRenjana K C Assistant Public Prosecutor)
Accused : Murukan @ Pambu Murukan, aged 51 years, S/o.Gopalakrishnan,
resident of TC 191446, Near Govt. LPS School, Mudavanmugal
ward, , Thirumala Village
(By Advocate Shri. Konchira G Neelakantan Nair)

Offences + Under Sections 393 IPC

Finding/Order : The above case is refiled as CP 1/25 for the purpose of
committing the above case to the Hon'ble Children’s Court for
trial,

This case having come up for consideration before this Court on 07.01.2025 and this
Court on the same day passed the following: -
ORDER

1. This is a case wherein Charge Sheet was filed by the Sub Inspector of Police,
Karamana Police Station in Crime No. 1119/13 against the accused alleging commission
of offences punishable under Section 393 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860.

2. The prosecution case is that the Accused reached the byroad near Andiyirakkam
Junction on 27.10.2013 at 4.30 pm in his Autorickshaw bearing registration number KL
01 2880 and restrained aged 16 years. He asked him to enter the autorickshaw. When
he refused, the Accused pushed him inside the autorickshaw and took him near the
byroad leading to Sasthrinagar, karamna. Thereafter, he stopped the autorickshaw and
robbed the mobile phone and bag in possession of him. When he resisted, the Accused
caught hold of his neck and caused hurt to him. When he cried aloud the Accused
escaped in the autorickshaw leaving the mobile phone and bag on the road, Thus the
Accused is alleged to have committed the above mentioned offences.
 3. The case was originally taken on file as C.C. No. 68/18 and cognizance was taken
{in respect of the said offences. Thereafter, processos were issued to the Accused . On
his appearance, copies of relevant Prosecution records were furnished to him, The
Accused is already enlarged on bail. The case was posted for framing of charge, at
which juncture it was brought to the attention of this Court that CW1 was aged only 16
years as on the date of occurrence and offences alleged includes offence under Section
75 of the JJ Act.

4, This Court considered the submissions of both the Learned APP and the Learned
Counsel for the Accused as to the competency of this Court to try the above offences as
the same involved violation of child rights and also offence punishable under Section 75
of the JJ Act. The Learned APP also pointed out that the settled position in the light of
Section 86(4) of the JJ Act read in consonance with Section 25 of the Commission for
Protection of Child Rights Act that in cases involving violation of child rights, this Court
{is not competent to conduct the trial and the Court competent to try the same is the
Hon'ble Children's Court, ie., the Hon'ble Principal District & Sessions Court,
Thirwvanathapuram.

5. On careful consideration of the facts of this case and the submissions made by the
Learned APP and the Learned Counsel for the Accused, this Court is satisfied that since
the CW1, minor in the above crime were only a minor as on the date of occurrence and
the offence alleged includes one punishable under Section 75 of the JJ Act, the Court
competent to try the same is the Hon'ble Children’s Court. Hence, the above case is
refiled as CP 1/2025 for the purpose of committing the above case to the Hon’ble
Children's Court for trial.

(Dictated to the Confidential Assistant, transcribed and typed by her, corrected and
pronounced by me in the open Court on this the 7® day of January, 2025)

Judicial I Class Magistrate-1,
Thiruvananthapuram
