 IN THE COURT OF THE CHIEF JUDICIAL MAGISTRATE,
THIRUVANANTHAPURAM
Present:
SUJAK.M
CHIEF JUDICIAL MAGISTRATE, THIRUVANANTHAPURAM.

Monday, the 03rd day of March, 2025,
M.C.No.105/2025

Petitioner State Bank of India, SMEC, Thycaud, Thiruvananthapuram,
represented by Chief Manager.
(By AdvSri.Manvila T.M Sreekumar and Adv.Lekshmy K.O)

Respondent Ansina N D/o Nabeezath Beevi.S, Aged 33 years, Anseena
Manzil, _Kudappanamoodu,  Kudappanamoodu—_P.0,
‘Thiruvananthpauram 695505,

ORDER

This petition was filed under section 14 of the Securitization and
Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest
Act, 2002 (hereinafter referred to as “Act”) for taking possession of the
secured asset.

2. The petitioner is a banking institution. ‘The petitioner is the
secured creditor and the respondent is the secured debtor. The respondent
created a security interest in respect of the scheduled property ie., motor
vehicle bearing registration number KL-74 C 6583 (the secured asset) in
favour of the petitioner in respect of the loan that he availed from the
petitioner by the respondent. The respondent committed default in
repaying the loan, Therefore the account was classified as Non Performing
Asset on 08/10/2024, On 18/10/2024, the petitioner issued a demand notice
ws.13) of the Act to the respondent calling upon him to repay the loan
amount within 60 days. The notice was accepted by the respondent. Even
after the receipt of the statutory notice w/s.13(2) of the Act, he did not
 repay the loan amount within the statutory period. So, the petitioner sought
for taking possession of the secured asset for realization of the amount that
due to the petitioner's bank.

3. The authorized Officer of the Petitioner-Bank filed affidavit in
compliance of Sec.14 of the Act. The affidavit and the documents produced
by the petitioner show that the respondent created security interest in
respect of the secured asset in favour of the petitioner at the time of availing
Joan and. failed to repay the amount even after the receipt of the statutory
notice w/s.13(2) of the Act. Hence I find that the petitioner is entitled for the
possession of the secured asset ie., the scheduled property through the
proceedings of this court.

In the result, the petition is allowed as follows:-

i. Advocate Shibi S. Anup (K/2830/23) is appointed as the commissioner
to take possession of the scheduled property ie., motor vehicle bearing
registration number KL-74 C 6583 and to hand it over to the petitioner
‘on proper acknowledgment, The petitioner shall pay a batta of Rs.2000/-
to the commissioner within 15 days from today and to pay Rs.5000/- on
filing report by the commissioner.

fi, The petitioner shall provide a copy of the petition including the schedule
of secured asset to the advocate commissioner for executing the order.

iii, The Station House Officer of the Police Station in which the secured
asset found, shall give necessary assistance to the commissioner if so
required.

iv, The commissioner is directed to prepare an inventory in triplicate to
be attested by two respectable witnesses as regards the execution of
this order and taking possession of the scheduled property. Copies
thereof shall be given to the petitioner as well as the respondent on
proper acknowledgment. The remaining one copy shall be produced
along with the commissioner's report before the court.
 3

v. The Advocate Commissioner shall execute the order within 60 days
from the date of payment of first part of the batta as directed in clause
@.

ictated to the Confidential Assistant, transcribed and typed by her, corrected and
pronounced by me in open court on this the 03rd day of March, 2025)

CHIEF JUDICIAL MAGISTRATE
THIRUVANANTHAPURAM
