 IN THE COURT OF THE CHIEF JUDICIAL MAGISTRATE
‘THIRUVANANTHAPUI
Present:
SUJAK.M
CHIEF JUDICIAL MAGISTRATE, THIRUVANANTHAPURAM

Eriday, the 28th day of February, 2025,
MC. No.114/2025,

Petitioner State Bank of India, a body corporate constituted under the State Bank
of India Act, 1955 doing the business of banking having its central
office at Medame Cama Road, Nariman Point, Mumbai 400 021 and
office / branches among other places including RASMEC IV,
Santhinagar, IV Floor, Kerala State Housing Board Building,
Santhingar, Thiruvananthapuram 695001, represented in the
proceedings by the Authorized Officer Smt.Sujatha Kumar, Chief
Manager, RACPC IV, who is duly authorized to verify and sign
pleadings on behalf of the petitioner bank by virtue of notification
Published in Govt of India Gazette dated 2“ May 1987 under
Regulations 76 r/w 77 of State Bank of India Regulation.

(By Adv.Sri.Asok Kumar J.5)

Respondents 1 Kabeer M A, aged about 64 years, S/o. A M Ismail, KS Villa,
Anadanmukku, Adayamon P.O, Thiruvananthapuram 695614

2 Seenath P, aged about 55 years, W/o. M A Kabeer, KS Villa,
Tholikuzhy, ‘Thattathumala, ‘Adayamon P.O,
‘Thiruvananthapuram 695614

ORDER

This petition was filed under section 14 of the Securitization and
Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest
‘Act, 2002 (hereinafter referred to as “Act”) for taking possession of the
secured asset which is the scheduled property.

2. The petitioner is a banking institution. It is represented by its
authorized officer. The petitioner is the secured creditor and the
respondents are the secured debtors. ‘The respondents created a security
interest by virtue of a security agreement in respect of the scheduled
 property ie., the secured asset in favour of the petitioner in respect of the
financial assistance that they availed from the petitioner. The respondents
committed default in repaying the loan. Therefore the account was classified
as Non Perfor Asset on 28/06/2024. On 01.07.2024, the petitioner
issued a demand notice u/s.13(2) of the Act to the respondent calling upon
them to repay the loan amount in full within 60 days. The notice was served

on the Ist respondent. The notice to the 2nd respondent returned with
endorsement that it was ‘refused’. The petitioner published a copy of the
notice in two newspapers. Even after the notice u/s.13(2) of the Act, the
respondents did not repay the loan amount within the statutory period. So,
the petitioner filed this petition for taking possession of the secured asset for
realization of the amount due to the petitioner's bank.

3. The authorized Officer of the petitioner filed affidavit in
compliance of Sec.14 of the Act. The affidavit and the documents
produced by the petitioner show that the respondents created a security
interest in respect of the secured asset in favour of the petitioner at the
time of availing loan from the petitioner and they failed to repay the
amount even after the receipt of statutory notice u/s.13(2) of the Act.
Hence I find that the petitioner is entitled for possession of the secured
asset which is the scheduled property through the proceedings of this
court.

In the result, the petition is allowed as follows:-

1. Advocate Parvathy LR (K/203/2008) is appointed as the
commissioner to take possession of the scheduled property with due notice to
the respondents and hand it over to the petitioner on proper acknowledgment,
‘The petitioner shall pay a batta of Rs.5500/- to the commissioner within 15
days from today and and pay Rs.1500/- on filing report by the commissioner.
 3

2. The petitioner shall provide a copy of the petition including the
schedule of secured asset to the advocate comt

jioner for executing the
order.

3. ‘The Station House Officer of the Police Station, in the area in
which the secured asset situated, shall give necessary assistance to the
commissioner if so required for executing the order.

4, The Advocate commissioner is permitted to break open the
premises if required so.

5. The commissioner is directed to prepare an inventory in
triplicate to be attested by two respectable witnesses as regards the
execution of this order and in taking possession of the scheduled property
and copies thereof shall be given to the petitioner as well as the
respondents on proper acknowledgment. The remaining one copy shall be
filed along with the commissioner's report before the court.

6. The commissioner shall execute the order within 60 days from
the date of payment of first part of the batta as directed in clause (i).

ictated to the Confidential Assistant, transcribed and typed by her, corrected and
pronounced by me in open court on this the 28th day of February, 2025)

CHIEF JUDICIAL MAGISTRATE
‘THIRUVANANTHAPURAM
