 IN THE COURT OF THE CHIEF JUDICIAL MAGISTRATE
‘THIRUVANANTHAPUI
Present:
SUJAK.M
CHIEF JUDICIAL MAGISTRATE, THIRUVANANTHAPURAM

M.G. No.1382/2024

Petitioner M/s HDFC Bank Ltd., represented by its Authorized Officer
MrSivakumar.S, HDFC Bank Ltd., HDFC House, P.B. No.2288, Opp
‘Tagore Theatre, Vazhuthacaud, Thiruvananthapuram 695010.
(By Adv.Sri.A.Yarshad & Anu Yarshad)

Respondents 1 Amal Muraleedharan, aged 45 years, S/o Muraleedharan S,
‘Muralivilasom, Uliyakovil P.O, Kollam.

2 Muraleedharan $, aged 66 years, S/o Sreedharan S,
Muralivilasom, Uliyakovil P.O, Kollam,

ORDER

‘This petition was filed under section 14 of the Securitization
and Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of
Security Interest Act, 2002 (hereinafter referred to as “Act”) for
taking possession of the secured asset which is the scheduled
property.

2. The petitioner is a bank. It is represented by its
authorized officer. The petitioner is the secured creditor and the
respondents are the secured debtors. The respondents created a
security interest by virtue of a security agreement in respect of the
scheduled property ie., the secured asset in favour of the petitioner
in respect of the financial assistance that they availed from the
petitioner. The respondents committed default in repaying the loan.

Therefore the account was classified as Non Performing Asset on
 03/08/2024. So, on 26/08/2024, the petitioner issued a demand
notice u/s.13(2) of the Act to the respondents calling upon them to
repay the loan amount in full within 60 days. The notice was served
on the Ist respondent. The notice issued to the 2nd respondent is not
served. So the petitioner published a copy of it in two daily
newspapers. Even after the notice u/s.13(2) of the Act, they did not
pay the loan amount within the statutory period. So, the petitioner
filed this petition for taking possession of the secured asset for
realization of the amount due to the petitioner's bank.

3. The authorized Officer of the petitioner filed affidavit in
compliance of Sec.14 of the Act. The affidavit and the documents
produced by the petitioner show that the respondents have created a
security interest in respect of the secured asset in favour of the
petitioner at the time of availing loan from the petitioner and they
failed to repay the amount even after the receipt of statutory notice
u/s.13(2) of the Act. Hence I find that the petitioner is entitled for
possession of the secured asset which is the scheduled property
through the proceedings of this court.

In the result, the petition is allowed as follows:-

i, Advocate Neeraj M.S (K/3641/2022) is appointed as the
commissioner to take possession of the scheduled property with due
notice to the respondents and hand it over to the petitioner on proper
acknowledgment. The petitioner shall pay a batta of Rs.5500/- to the
commissioner within 15 days from today and and pay Rs.1500/- on
filing report by the commissioner.

fi, The petit

nner shall provide a copy of the petition including
the schedule of secured asset to the advocate commissioner for

executing the order.
 3

iii, The Station House Officer, of the Police Station in the area
in which the secured asset situated, shall give necessary assistance to
the commissioner if so required for executing the order.

iv. The Advocate commissioner is permitted to break open the
premises if required so.

v. The commissioner is directed to prepare an inventory in
triplicate to be attested by two respectable witnesses as regards the
execution of this order and in taking possession of the scheduled
property and copies thereof shall be given to the petitioner as well
as the respondents on proper acknowledgment. The remaining one
copy shall be filed along with the commissioner's report before the
court.

vi. The commissioner shall execute the order within 60 days
from the date of payment of first part of the bata as directed in

clause (i).

(Dictate to the Confidential Assistant, transcribed and typed by her, corrected and
pronounced by me in open court on this the 28th day of February, 2025)

CHIEF JUDICIAL MAGISTRATE
‘THIRUVANANTHAPURAM
