 INTHE COURT OF THE JUDICIAL MAGISTRATE OF THE FIRST CLASS-IIL
‘THIRUVANANTHAPURAM

Present: Sri. Vinod Babu M.U
Judicial Magistrate of the First Class- III

Exiday_the 28° day of February, 2025
CMP No.67002024 in_CC.14512015 7 alice Station Cri
1730/2012)
Petitioner 1: Geetha.V, aged 60 years, W/o Venugopalan Nair,

Kachanathu veedu, idathara, Chempazhanthy P.O.,
‘Thiruvananthapuram ~ 695587,

(By Advs. Sri, K. Sureshkumar & Smt, Rajitha Suresh)

Counter Petitioners 1: The Secretary, Thiruvananthapuram Service Co-
operative Bank Ltd No. T.131,26/1627, Govt. Press
Road, Thiruvananthapuram- 695001.

(By Adv. Sri.Vishnu Raj.R)
2 State represented by the Inspector of Police,

‘Thampanoor Police Station, Thiruvananthapuram.

(By Assistant Public Prosecutor)
Order : Allowed

This petition came up for hearing today and the court on the same day
delivered the following:-
ORDER
1. This is an application filed by the petitioner w/s. 497 of Bharatiya Nagarik
Suraksha Sanhita which is a claim petition filed by the petitioner for the
release of gold omaments kept under the custody of 1" respondent as per the
direction of the Hon'ble High Court of Kerala in Crl. MC. 7234/2019.
2. It is pertinent to note that in this case, the Hon'ble High Court of Kerala
ners in Cri. MC, 7234/2019 and

consider the application of the pet
disposed of it with a specific direction to reconsider this matter. As per the
order of the Hon'ble High Court of Kerala this court appointed an Advocate
Commissioner for carrying out the exercise of identification of the gold

‘omaments which is now kept under the custody of 1* respondent . The 1*
 respondent/bank shall furnish the details of persons whose gold ornaments
are under the custody of 1* respondent.

.. The advocate commissioner identified the article and shall file a report. The
specific direction of the Hon’ble High Court of Kerala is that the 1"
respondent/bank shall release the gold ornaments upon the condition that the
petitioners shall clear all the liabilities existing in the 1" respondenv/bank in
respect of the transactions of gold ornaments discussed in this case. After
receiving this order the petitioners impleaded additional respondents 3 t0 11
through the application vide CMP No. 840/2025. The 1* respondent filed a
detailed report about the details of gold ornaments kept in T. No. 391/2012
and_T. No, 390/2012. As per the report of the 1" respondent the petitioner
remitted Rs. 61,445/- for the identified gold ornaments weighing 30.500 gms
belonging to the petitioner. The 1* respondent submitted that the petitioner
paid the above amount for the said gold ornaments and has no objection to
releasing the said gold ornaments.

As per the order of the Hon’ble High Court of Kerala all the respondents were
impleaded through paper publications and some of the respondents were
represented. ‘The other respondents filed separate applications which were
adjourned for considering it separately. 1 have complied the directions
issued by the Hon'ble High Court of Kerala in Crl. MC. No. 7234/2019.
Hence the light of the decision of the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in
Sunder Bhai Ambalal Desai v.State of Gujarath and Suresh Serve V.
‘State of Kerala pronounced by the Hon'ble High Court of Kerala, I am of the
opinion that there is no need to detain the gold omaments and in the light of
the decision of the Hon'ble High Court of Kerala it should be disposed of by
passing appropriate orders for giving effect to the implementation of the order
passed by the Hon'ble High Court of Kerala, Hence the CMP is allowed
subject to the following conditions:

1. The 1* respondent shall release the gold ornaments mentioned in T. No.
390/2012 and T. No, 391/2012 kept in the bank locker of 1* respondent

bank vide gold loan no, AGL. 295 after verifying the records showing
 3
the remittance of the amount mentioned above and also the quantity and

quality of identified gold oraments mentioned above and based on the
report of the bank before this court.

2. The petitioner shall take the photographs of the gold ornaments showing all
the angles and showing the weight of the gold ornaments. The photographs
should be signed by the petitioner, learned counsel for the petitioner and
countersigned by the Secretary and the staff concemed who is the
custodian of gold ornaments kept in the 1* respondent bank.

3. The petitioner shall prepare an inventory showing the specifications,
particulars, weight and other details of the gold omaments. mentioned
above.

4, The petitioner shall file Section 65 B Certificate and inventory showing
the details specifications of gold ornaments released from this cour.

5. The 1 respondent bank shall ensure the accuracy and purity of gold
omaments mentioned above before itis entrusted to the petitioners as per
the order of this court.

(Dictated to the Confidential Assistan, transcribed and typed by her, corrected and
pronounced by me, in open court, on the 28° day of February 2025.)

Judicial Magistrate of the First Class-IIT
Thiruvananthapuram
