 IN THE COURT OF THE JUDICIAL MAGISTRATE OF THE FIRST CLASS-I
‘THIRUVANANTHAPURAM
Present: Smt. Karthika S Varma
Judicial I Class Magistrate-I, Thiruvananthapuram
Monday, the 27" day of January, 2025,
Calendar Case No. 69/2023
(Crime No. 52/2023 of Sreekaryam Police Station)

Complainant State represented by the Sub Inspector,
Sreekaryam Police station in Crime No. 52/2023

(By Smt. Dr-Ranjana K C, Assistant Public
Prosecutor)

Accused
1, Justin Raj, aged 42 years, S/o.Ponnayyan,
resident of Madathil meieveedu, Ayiroor para
village

2. P Johny, aged 54 years, S/o.Ponnayyan,
resident of Jincy Bhavan, Vazhavila, Karyavattom
3. Manju, aged 45 years, D/o. P Johny, resident
of Jincy Bhavan, Vazhavila, Karyavattom

(By Adv. Vinoj Rajan)

Offence Under Sections 294(b), 323, 341 riw 34 IPC

Plea Not guilty.

Finding Not guilty.

Sentence ‘The Accused are acquitted under Section 255(1)
of the CrPC of the offences under Sections

294(b), 323, 341 r/w 34 IPC. Their bail bond
stands cancelled and they are set at liberty.

Description of the Accused

jomapete |

SLANG Name Father's Name. Residence _| Age

‘Ayiroorpara
1 Jastinraj Ponnayyan : village 2

 2

2 P John Ponnayyan =] Karyavattom [54
3 Manchu P Johny =| Karyavattom | 45
Dates of
‘Occurrence | Report | Apprehension | Release on | Commencement | Close | Sentence
or all ‘of trial

or appearance o or

Complaint tral Onder

Taora0a | Te0r20as | iTexzoM | Tronze | —I7ToRzoa | aso TONS | TOL

This case finally came up for consideration and hearing on 25.01.2025 and
this Court on 27.01.2025 pronounced the following: -
JUDGEMENT

1. This case is instituted upon the Final Report filed by the Sub Inspector of
Police, Sreekaryam Police Station in Crime No, 52/2023 for the offences
punishable under Sections 294(b), 323, 341 r/w 34 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860
(hereinafter referred to as the IPC).

2. ‘The Prosecution allegation in brief is as follows: Due to the prior animo:
towards the Informant, the Accused persons in furtherance of their common
intention, wrongfully restrained the Informant inside St. Paul’s Lutheran church,
Gandhipuram at 9.30 am on 14.01.2023, uttered obscene words to him and
voluntarily caused hurt to the Informant. Thereby the Accused are alleged to have
‘committed offences punishable under Sections 294(b), 323, 341 r/w 34 of the IPC.

3. ‘The cognizance was taken on the basis of Final Report in respect of the
aforesaid offences. On issuance of process, the Accused entered appearance before
this Court. They were enlarged on bail. They were represented by a Counsel of
their own choice. Copies of all relevant Prosecution records were furnished to
them. After hearing both parties and on perusing relevant records, the particulars

 of the offences punishable under Sections 294(b), 323, 341 riw 34 of IPC was read
over and explained to them, to which they pleaded not guilty and claimed to be
tried

4, From the side of Prosecution CW1 alone was examined as PW1 and Exhibit
PI was marked. The remaining witnesses were given up by the Learned APP as
the material witness, the injured himself had turned hostile to the case of
Prosecution. Since no incriminating circumstances arose from the deposition of the
witness and materials on record, the examination of the Accused under Section
313(1)(b) of the CrPC was dispensed with. No Defence evidence was also adduced.

5. Heard both sides and perused the documents. The following points arise for
consideration:

(a) Have the Accused persons, in furtherance of their common intention,
uttered obscene words to PW1 and thereby committed the offence
punishable under section 294 (b) r/w 34 of the IPC as alleged?

(b) Have the Accused persons, in furtherance of their common intention,
voluntarily caused hurt to PW1 and thereby committed offence punishable
under Section 323 r/w 34 of the IPC as alleged?

(©) Have the Accused persons, in furtherance of their common intention,
wrongfully restrained PW1 and thereby committed offence punishable
under Section 341 r/w 34 of the IPC as alleged?

(a) If so, what shall be the proper sentence to be awarded?

6. Points (a) to (c): These points are considered together for the sake of
brevity and for avoiding repetition.

PW1 deposed that the incident occurred 14.01.2023 at 9.30 at St. Paul's
Lutheran church, Gandhipuram. He was restrained and assaulted by few persons
‘on his way to the Church. They pushed and punched him. He did not sustain
 4

serious injuries. He had gone for treatment initially to the Health Centre and
thereafter to the Medical College. He deposed that he gave Exhibit P1 Statement
to the police. He categorically denied the Accused having assaulted, restrained
him, or uttered obscene words to him. On specific question put forth by the
Learned APP, he deposed that the Accused are the relatives of his wife and that
they have settled the matter between them and accordingly filed a Compounding
Petition before this Court.

‘On perusal of the evidence led by the Prosecut
record, it is clear from the testimony of PW1 that there is no evidence to support
the Prosecution case. PW1 admits having sustained injuries but there is no
whisper that that it was the Accused persons who had allegedly assaulted and
restrained him or showered obscene words on him. In the aforesaid
circumstances, the remaining witness was given up by the Prosecution as no
purpose would be served in examining them. Neither the ingredients of the alleged
offences, nor the involvement of the Accused persons brought out in the evidence
adduced by the Prosecution. Furthermore, the as is evident from the deposition of
PW1, the parties on account of their settlement had filed Compounding Petition as
CMP 3984/2024, and the same was dismissed by this Court as alleged offences
included commission of non-compoundable offence. Thus, this Court is of the view
that the Prosecution has miserably failed to prove the involvement of this Accused
persons in the above Crime beyond reasonable doubt. This Court finds that the
Prosecution has failed to prove the case against the Accused and therefore, Points
(@) to (©) are found in favour of the Accused.

yn and the materials on

7. Point (d): In light of finding in the foregoing points, this point does not
arise for consideration.

8 In the result, the 1", 2 and 3" Accused are found not guilty of having
‘committed the offences punishable under Sections 294(b), 323, 341 r/w 34 of the
 IPC. They are acquitted of the aforesaid offences under Section 255(1) of the CrPC.
‘Their bail bond stands cancelled and they are set at liberty.

(Dictated to the Confidential Assistant, transcribed and typed by her, corrected by
me and pronounced in open Court on this, the 27* day of January, 2025.)

Judicial Magistrate of I Class -1,

‘Thiruvananthapuram
APPENDIX

‘A: Prosecution witness

Rank Name Whether Eye witness,
Police witness, Expert
witness, Medical
witness, Other witness

Pwi Ratheesh R S(CW1) examined Occurrence witness

(on 03.01.2025

B: Defence witness

Rank Name Whether Eye witness,
Police witness, Expert
witness, Medical
witness, Other witness

Nil Nil Nil

G: Court witne

Rank Name Whether Eye witness,
Police witness, Expert
witness, Medical
witness, Other witness
 6

Nil Nil Nil

List of Prosecution/Defence/Court Exhibits

A. Prosecution Exhibits

SL.No | Exhibit Description
Number

1 PI/PWi First Information

B. Defence Exhibits
SL.No | Exhibit No. Description

Nil T Nil Nal

©. Court Exhibits
SL.No | Exhibit No. Description
Nil NN
D. Material Objects
SL.No | Exhibit No. Description

Nil Nil Nil

Judicial First Class Magistrate-I,
‘Thirwvananthapuram.
  