 IN THE COURT OF THE CHIEF JUDICIAL MAGISTRATE
‘THIRUVANANTHAPURAM
Present:
SUJAKM
CHIEF JUDICIAL MAGISTRATE, THIRUVANANTHAPURAM

Friday, the 28 day of February, 2025
> No 1062025

Petitioner The Kerala State Co-operative Bank Ltd, (Erstwhile
‘Thiruvananthapuram District Co-operative Bank Ltd.) Regional
Office, Thiruvananthapuram, having branch office at various
places including Vithrua branch, —Thiruvananthapuram,
represented by their Authorized Officer Raheena Beevi S D/o
Ebrahimkunju, aged 51 years, Nidhi, Pacha P.O, Palode,
Thiruvananthapuram.
(By AdvSri. Thottam S Rajeev)

Respondent Christofer S/o Francis, aged 50 years, Sneha Bhavan, Chayam,
Vadakkekara, Vithura P.O, Vithura Village, Nedumangad Taluk,
‘Thiruvananthapuram.

ORDER

This petition was filed under section 14 of the Securitization and
Reconstruction of Financial Assets and Enforcement of Security Interest
Act, 2002 (hereinafter referred to as “Act”) for taking possession of the
secured asset which is the scheduled property.

2. The petitioner is a Co-operative bank registered with Reserve
Bank of India. It is represented by its authorized officer. The petitioner is
the secured creditor and the respondent is the secured debtor. The
respondent created a security interest by virtue of a security agreement in
respect of the scheduled property ie., the secured asset in favour of the
petitioner in respect of the financial assistance that he availed from the
petitioner, The respondent committed default in repaying the loan.
 ‘Therefore the account was classified as Non Performing Asset. So, the
petitioner issued a demand notice dated 13/11/2023 u/s.13(2) of the Act to the
respondent to repay the loan amount in full within 60 days. ‘The notice was
served on the respondent. Even after the notice w/s.13(2) of the Act, he did
not pay the loan amount within the statutory period. So, the petitioner filed
this petition for taking possession of the secured asset for realization of the
amount due to the petitioner's bank.

3. The authorized Officer of the petitioner filed affidavit in
compliance of Sec.14 of the Act. The affidavit and the documents produced
by the petitioner show that the respondent created a security interest in
respect of the secured asset in favour of the petitioner at the time of availing
loan from the petitioner and they failed to repay the loan. He failed to
repay the amount even after the receipt of the statutory notice w/s.13(2) of
the Act, Hence I find that the petitioner is entitled for possession of the
secured asset which is the scheduled property through the proceedings of
this court,

In the result, the petition is allowed as follows:-

i, Advocate Sandra Sathish (K/1493/2023) is appointed as the
commissioner to take possession of the scheduled property with due
notice to the respondent and hand it over to the petitioner on proper
acknowledgment. The petitioner shall pay a batta of Rs.5500/- to the
commissioner within 15 days from today and and pay Rs.1500/- on filing
report by the commissioner.

ii, The petitioner shall provide a copy of the petition including the schedule

of secured asset to the advocate commissioner for executing the order.

. The Station House Officer of the Police St.

in the area in which the

secured assets. situated, shall give necessary assistance to the

commissioner if so required for executing the order.
 3

iv, The Advocate commissioner is permitted to break open the premises if
required so.

v. The commissioner is directed to prepare an inventory in triplicate to
be attested by two respectable witnesses as regards the execution of
this order and in taking possession of the scheduled property and
copies thereof shall be given to the petitioner as well as the
respondents on proper acknowledgment. The remaining one copy
shall be filed along with the commissioner's report before the court.

vi, The commissioner shall execute the order within 60 days from the
date of payment of first part of the batta as directed in clause (i).

Cictated to the Confidential Assistant, transcribed and typed by her, corrected
and pronounced by me in open court on this the 28th day of February, 2025)

CHIEF JUDICIAL MAGISTRATE,
‘THIRUVANANTHAPURAM
