 IN THE COURT OF THE JUDICIAL I CLASS MAGISTRATE-V,
(SPECIAL COURT FOR MARKLIST CASES), THIRUVANANTHAPURAM.

Present:-Smt. Aswathy. S, Judicial First Class Magistrate-V,
‘Thiruvananthapuram.

‘Thursday the 9* day of January, 2025/ 19" Pousha, 1946.

CMP. 24/2025

in
Crime No, 95/2024 of Mannanthala Police Station

Petitioners/Accused : Jithin Raj @ Kappiri Jithin, aged 32 years, S/o. Rajendran,
‘Amarathil House, House No.71, Akshay Gardens,
Nalanchira, Kinavoor Ward, Kudappanakunnu Village

(By Advocate Sri Kulathoor. L.R-Rahul)

Counter petitioner: State of Kerala represented by the Sub Inspector of
Police, Mannanthala Police Station.

(By Assistant Public Prosecutor)

Offence 2 Ulss. 296(b), 118(1), 329(3) BNS and 31(1) of Domestic
Violence Act.
Order : Allowed.

This petition having been heard today the court passed the following:-

ORDER

1. This is the 2" petition filed w/s. 480 of BNSS 2023 by the petitioner / accused
in Crime No, 895/2024 of Mannanthala Police Station.

2. Offence alleged against the petitioner / accused is U/ss. 296(b), 118(1), 329(3)
BNS and 31(1) of Domestic Violence Act.

3. The prosecution case in brief as follows:- In violation of the protection order
passed against the accused in CMP No. 1337/2021, on 15.06.2024 , at 11.00
ppm the accused trespassed into the house of informant, Siva Deepam Veedu,
Sreevalsam Lane, Mukkolakkal PO and attempted to break her hands,
subsequently on 08.09.2024, at 19.30 hours, the accused by uttering obscene
‘words beaten her with a frond, when she fell down, he further struck her with

the same, resulting in severe injury. Thus the accused has committed offences
 punishable w/ss. 296(b), 118(1), 329(3) BNS and 31(1) of Domestic Violence
Act.

Petitioner/accused was arrested and produced before this court on 26.12.2024.
‘Since then he has been in judicial custody. Thus this petition.

Acreport was called for from SHO, Mannanthala police station. Report filed by
the SHO Mannanthala Police Station dated 09.01.2025 stating that the investi-
gation in the above case is going on and if accused is enlarged on bail he may
flee from justice and also there is a chance that the evidence will be tampered.
Heard both sides. The following point has arisen for consideration ?

Is the petitioner /accused entitled to be released on bail ?

Point :- The learned counsel for the petitioner / accused submitted that the al-
legations of prosecution false and because of the family disputes that exist be-
tween the accused and the informant, she now lodged the FIR. The learned
counsel further contented that he is in custody for three weeks.

‘The leamed Assistant Public Prosecutor argued that the offences alleged
against the accused is serious in nature and he has serious similar criminal an-
tecedents. ‘The learned APP further submitted that accused committed viola-
tion of the protection order earlier also and that case is still pending. Since the
investigation is at the initial stage, and his custody is required hence this appli-
cation has to be rejected

In Dataram Singh v. State of UP 2018(1)KHC 901 the Honourable Apex
Court held that “Yet another important facet of our criminal
jurisprudence is that the grant of bail is the general rule and putting a
person in jail or in a prison or in a correction home (whichever expression
‘one may wish to use) is an exception. Unfortunately, some of these basic
principles appear to have been lost sight of with the result that more and

more persons are being incarcerated and for longer periods. This does not

do any good to our criminal jurisprudence or to our society.

‘There is no doubt that the grant or denial of bail is entirely the discretion
 3

of the Judge considering a case but even so, the exercise of judicial
discretion has been circumscribed by a large number of decisions
rendered by this Court and by every High Court in the country. Yet,
‘occasionally there is a necessity to introspect whether denying bail to an
accused person is the right thing to do on the facts and in the
circumstances of a case”.

10. In XXXX y, State of Kerala 2024 KHC 1267 the Honourable Apex Court
held that “In bail applications, generally, it has been laid down from the
earliest times that, the object of bail is to secure the appearance of the
accused person at his trial by reasonable amount of bail. The object of bail
is neither punitive nor preventive. Deprivation of liberty must be
considered a punishment, unless it is required to ensure that an accused
person will stand his trial when called upon. The courts owe more than
verbal respect to the principle that punishment begins after conviction,
and that every man is deemed to be innocent until duly tried and duly
found guilty”.

I have heard the contentions of both parties. As per the report, recovery has
been effected. The earlier bail application filed by the accused/ petitioner was
dismissed vide order in CMP No. 1567/2024 dated 28.12.2024. As per the

prosect

n records now the final report has been filed by the police and there
is change in circumstances. Considering the facts and circumstances of the
case, this court is of the view that further detention of the accused in the
judicial custody is not required. Hence he can be released on bail.

12.As a result, the Accused /petitioner is released on bail on the following
stringent conditions:-

1. Accused /petitioner is released on bail on executing a bail bond of
%.50,000/- with two solvent sureties each for like sum.
2. Accused /petitioner shall not commit any offences while he is on bai.

3. Accused petitioner shall not directly or indirectly make any inducement,
 4

threat or promise to any person acquainted with the facts of the case so
as to dissuade him from disclosing such facts to the court or police offi-
‘cer or tamper with the evidence.

4. If any of the conditions are violated the bail granted hereby will be can-
celled.

Dictoted t0 the Confidential Assistant, transcribed and typed by her, corrected by me and
pronounced by me in open court on this the 9° day of January, 2025.
‘intrue copy!l

Sd/-
Judicial First Class Magistrate-V,
‘Thiruvananthapuram.
